HapRepair: Static-Oracle–Guided LLM Repair for
Low-Resource Programming Languages (A Case Study on
ArkTS/OpenHarmony)
ZHIHAO LIN, Beihang University, China
MINGYI ZHOU, Beihang University, China
CHI CHEN, Fudan University, China
YUN YANG* , Yunnan University, China
JUN WANG , Beihang University, China
CHUNMING HU, Beihang University, China
LI LI , Beihang University, Yunnan Key Laboratory of Software Engineering, China
Emerging programming languages and platforms often lack the resources that make automated
program repair practical in mature ecosystems: large bug-fix corpora, executable tests, and stable
analysis/build toolchains. This paper studies automated defect repair in such low-resource program-
ming languages and asks how to build a reliable, scalable, and cost-controllable repair workflow
under these constraints. We propose static-oracle–guided LLM repair : a workflow that treats a
language-specific static analyzer as a lightweight oracle to (i) localize defects precisely and pro-
vide structured signals to condition LLM repair, and (ii) iteratively verify candidate patches by
re-checking the project when tests are missing. We instantiate this paradigm as HapRepair, inte-
grating static analysis, LLM-based repair, and retrieval-augmented generation (RAG) to improve
repair effectiveness. In our ArkTS/OpenHarmony case study, we integrate HomeCheck, a whole-
project ArkTS static analyzer that emits structured defect reports, and utilize RAG together with
ArkAnalyzer to improve patch quality. To overcome the context window limitation of LLMs on
multi-defect files, we propose the Surrounding Context Extractor and the Context Combination
Tool. Experiment results show that HapRepair achieves substantial guideline-compliance improve-
ment in OpenHarmony apps, eliminating about 97% of HomeCheck findings under a frozen rule
set/configuration on the test set and substantially outperforming direct LLM-based repair without
our toolchain. Our results suggest a general design principle for test-scarce, low-resource settings:
use a precision-first static oracle to define where to fix and provide a checkable contract, and use
LLMs to synthesize how to fix under semantic uncertainty—accepting that oracle-limited recall can
leave some repairable defects undetected and that oracle compliance does not by itself guarantee
full semantic correctness.
* The corresponding author


Authors’ Contact Information: Zhihao Lin, Beihang University, China, mathieulin@buaa.edu.cn; Mingyi
Zhou, Beihang University, China, zhoumingyi@buaa.edu.cn; Chi Chen, Fudan University, China,
15110240004@fudan.edu.cn; Yun Yang, Yunnan University, China, yangyun@ynu.edu.cn; Jun Wang, Bei-
hang University, China, junwang.lu@gmail.com; Chunming Hu, Beihang University, China, hucm@buaa.
edu.cn; Li Li, Beihang University, and Yunnan Key Laboratory of Software Engineering, China, lilicoding@
ieee.org.

Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or classroom use is granted
without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed for profit or commercial advantage and that
copies bear this notice and the full citation on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned
by others than the author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise,
or republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission and/or a fee.
Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
© 2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM XXXX-XXXX/2025/12-ART
https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.nnnnnnn


                                                , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
2                         Zhihao Lin, Mingyi Zhou, Chi Chen, Yun Yang, Jun Wang, Chunming Hu, and Li Li


ACM Reference Format:
Zhihao Lin, Mingyi Zhou, Chi Chen, Yun Yang, Jun Wang, Chunming Hu, and Li Li. 2025. HapRe-
pair : Static-Oracle–Guided LLM Repair for Low-Resource Programming Languages (A Case Study
on ArkTS/OpenHarmony). 1, 1 (December 2025), 37 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/nnnnnnn.
nnnnnnn

1   Introduction
Automated defect detection and repair have made substantial progress in mature ecosys-
tems (e.g., Java/C/C++), supported by large-scale bug-fix corpora, rich test suites, and
stable toolchains for building and analysis [9, 23, 45]. However, these assumptions often
break in emerging languages and platforms: training data are scarce, executable tests are
unavailable or expensive to run at scale, and analysis/build infrastructure is immature or
highly platform-specific. We refer to such settings as low-resource programming languages.
In these ecosystems, the central bottleneck for scalable repair is not merely patch generation,
but the lack of a reliable oracle to (i) localize defects and (ii) provide repeatable feedback
for validating fixes in the absence of tests; in practice, static analyzers are often the only
scalable, repeatable proxy for guideline intent at corpus scale.
   Research question. In low-resource programming languages that lack training data,
tests, and mature toolchains, how can we construct a reliable, scalable, and cost-controllable
automated defect repair workflow?
   Existing approaches for defect detection and repair can be roughly divided into two
categories: traditional approaches using static analysis and learning-based approaches. Tra-
ditional tools (e.g., SonarQube [44] and ESLint [14]) can precisely detect rule-covered is-
sues, but typically provide warnings or recommendations rather than automated repairs.
Learning-based approaches train models on large datasets of defective and repaired code
pairs [9, 45, 47] and have achieved strong benchmark results (e.g., Defects4J [23]). With the
advent of LLMs, repair systems can synthesize patches with less task-specific training [32–
34]. Yet in low-resource languages, LLM-only repair remains brittle: it is often underdeter-
mined where to edit (especially with multi-defect files and platform-specific rules) and hard
to validate whether an edit is correct without runnable tests, leading to wasted or risky
edits.
   To answer the research question, we advocate a static-oracle–guided LLM repair para-
digm. The key idea is to treat a language/platform-specific static analyzer as a lightweight
oracle that (1) provides actionable, structured localization to condition repair and (2) en-
ables iterative, scalable feedback by re-checking the project after applying candidate patches.
While a static oracle does not replace semantic testing, in test-scarce ecosystems it is often
the only scalable proxy for guideline intent and serves as a checkable contract for iter-
ative repair. Crucially, this leads to a transferable design principle: separate where-to-fix
from how-to-fix. The static oracle defines where to fix via checkable constraints; the LLM
defines how to fix when repairs have high degrees of freedom and semantics are underspec-
ified. We intentionally prioritize oracle precision over recall : without tests, false positives
can drive unnecessary edits and overstate progress, whereas limited recall mainly leaves
some repairable-but-undetected defects outside the repair loop. Conceptually, weaker or
noisier oracles do not invalidate the separation, but reduce yield (coverage) and trust (ver-
ification), motivating oracle-strengthening techniques (e.g., richer localization anchors and
multi-oracle combinations).
   We instantiate and evaluate this paradigm in a representative low-resource ecosystem:
ArkTS for OpenHarmony apps. We introduce HapRepair, which operationalizes the above

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
HapRepair : Static-Oracle–Guided LLM Repair                                                            3


design point by tightly coupling (i) a precision-first static oracle (HomeCheck ) that emits
structured defect reports for localization and re-checking, (ii) RAG to mitigate the knowl-
edge gap in scarce-language repairs, and (iii) context extraction/combination to keep LLM
prompts focused on the defect-relevant region in long, multi-defect files. Experiment results
show that HapRepair eliminates about 97% of HomeCheck findings under a frozen rule
set/configuration on the test set and substantially outperforms direct LLM-based repair
without our toolchain. Overall, ArkTS/OpenHarmony serves as a case study demonstrat-
ing how static-oracle–guided LLM repair can provide a practical and scalable workflow when
tests and training data are limited.
   The main contributions of this study are shown as follows:

∙ We propose a static-oracle–guided LLM repair paradigm for low-resource programming
  languages that separates where-to-fix (precision-first static-oracle localization and re-
  checking) from how-to-fix (LLM synthesis under semantic uncertainty) in the absence
  of tests.
∙ We distill four reusable static-oracle properties for LLM repair—precision-first, stable rule
  identifiers, structured localization, and repair-oriented context boundaries—and connect
  them to empirical evidence in our study (Section 2.4.1).
∙ We instantiate this paradigm as an end-to-end workflow, HapRepair, and evaluate it on
  ArkTS/OpenHarmony as a representative low-resource language/platform setting; the
  workflow integrates RAG and context extraction/combination to keep repairs focused in
  long, multi-defect files.
∙ We manually curate a specialized dataset of 426 defect-repair pairs across 64 rule types
  (44 performance and 20 security), providing a foundational resource for bootstrapping
  ArkTS defect detection and repair research.
∙ We engineer and open-source HomeCheck (HomeCheck), an ArkTS/OpenHarmony static
  oracle instantiation that performs whole-project analysis on ArkAnalyzer’s IR (AST/CFG/-
  types/scopes and ArkUI view trees) and emits structured defect reports with stable iden-
  tifiers to support iterative repair; HomeCheck includes 100+ performance rules (plus
  correctness/security rules) and powers both DevEco Studio’s CodeLinter and our repair
  pipeline. We make HapRepair available at: https://github.com/SMAT-Lab/HapRepair.

2     Background
2.1    OpenHarmony and ArkTS
OpenHarmony is an operating system governed by the OpenAtom Foundation. It aims
to create a unified and intelligent platform for connecting all devices. OpenHarmony has
evolved into a community-driven operating system supported by multiple organizations
and developers worldwide. Its modular architecture facilitates seamless interconnection and
cooperation across a wide range of smart devices, including smartphones, smart homes, au-
tomotive systems, and wearables. OpenHarmony has shown significant potential, especially
in the rapidly expanding Internet of Everything (IoE) and smart device markets. It has been
deployed in millions of devices across various domains. It also has attracted many develop-
ers delving into the OpenHarmony ecosystem. Current researches on OpenHarmony explore
enhancing its technical capabilities and application scenarios, with a focus on distributed
computing, security, and real-time processing. As highlighted by Li et al. [27], OpenHar-
mony presents a unique opportunity for advancing software engineering practices tailored
for IoE and distributed systems.

                                              , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
4                         Zhihao Lin, Mingyi Zhou, Chi Chen, Yun Yang, Jun Wang, Chunming Hu, and Li Li


   ArkTS, the official programming language of developing OpenHarmony apps, extends
TypeScript with features tailored for multi-platform application development. It retains the
strengths of TypeScript, while adding ArkTS-specific syntax/semantics and framework fea-
tures (e.g., ArkUI, a declarative UI framework that binds interfaces to reactive data). These
differences make many existing defect detection and repair tools designed for TypeScript
difficult to apply directly, making ArkTS/OpenHarmony a representative low-resource lan-
guage/platform setting for studying automated repair.

2.2   Defect Detection and Repair
2.2.1 Defect Detection. Defect detection is a crucial process in software engineering that
detects potential issues directly from source code before execution. Traditional approaches
often rely on static analysis tools [4, 6], such as SonarQube and ESLint, which have been
widely adopted for detecting coding errors, memory leaks, and security risks. These tools
remind developers to proactively address potential issues and prevent future problems.
  Recent advancements in deep learning-based approaches (including LLMs) have shown
the potential for defect detection [18, 32–34]. By training on large datasets of labeled code
snippets, these models can predict defect types and provide actionable insights. However,
the performance of these approaches heavily depends on the availability of high-quality
and diverse training data [2]. In scenarios involving new programming languages, such as
ArkTS in OpenHarmony Apps, the lack of datasets significantly limits their ability to detect
defects.

2.2.2 Defect repair. Defect repair is to provide repair suggestions for defective code or
automatically repair defective code. Traditional approaches for defect repair are often rule-
based and template-based approaches that provide common repair suggestions [24, 31, 35].
However, these approaches struggle to repair defects that do not belong to predefined
rules and templates. In addition, these approaches have difficulty in repairing complex
and context-dependent defects [39]. LLM-based approaches for defect repair have gained
considerable attention in recent years [16]. These approaches leverage LLMs to understand
the syntax and semantics of code and then to automatically repair defects. For example,
CodeX and GPT-3 developed by OpenAI, which have been trained on large amounts of code
corpora, possess the capability of defect repair. However, these approaches also heavily de-
pend on the availability of high-quality and diverse training data [50]. In addition, these
approaches often suffer from the maximum length of the context window [42], which is a
limitation for multi-defect repair. Furthermore, the generated repairs by these approaches
may introduce other defects [22]. These limitations motivate hybrid repair workflows that (i)
use a scalable, checkable oracle for localization and iterative feedback, and (ii) use LLMs for
context-dependent patch synthesis when the repair operator is not template-deterministic.

2.3   ArkAnalyzer
ArkAnalyzer [7] is a static analysis framework. It has a set of common features (e.g., call
graph construction) that are recurrently required when implementing in-depth static analyz-
ers such as privacy leak detectors and compatibility issue detectors, providing high efficiency
and effectiveness in analyzing the code of ArkTS. Thus, ArkAnalyzer is a natural choice
for us to integrate into HapRepair as the analysis backbone of HomeCheck and to support
lightweight verification signals in the repair loop.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
HapRepair : Static-Oracle–Guided LLM Repair                                                            5


2.4   HomeCheck
HomeCheck (HomeCheck) is a static analysis engine specifically designed for ArkTS. It im-
plements an extensible rule set that detects defects across multiple dimensions, including
security, performance, and coding style, and supports custom rule development for scalabil-
ity. In an LLM-based repair loop, we treat the static analyzer not merely as a “tool”, but as
a static oracle: a deterministic, machine-readable source of defect signals that anchors defect
localization and provides an automated post-fix check. HomeCheck is our instantiation in
this static-oracle design space. It is engineered as a whole-project analyzer on top of Ark-
Analyzer (AST/CFG/type/scope information and ArkUI view trees) and emits structured
issue reports with precise locations, enabling IDE integration and downstream automation.
In our framework, HomeCheck serves as the static rule-based defect detector (the “static
rule checking” component). In DevEco Studio, CodeLinter uses HomeCheck as its backend
analysis engine, so HomeCheck also contributes to CodeLinter’s scanning capability. In this
paper, we use HomeCheck as the static oracle in our repair loop.
2.4.1 What properties must a static oracle satisfy to support LLM-based repair? We distill
four reusable properties for a static oracle that can reliably support LLM-based repair,
independent of language or platform:
∙ Precision over recall. LLM-based repair is cost-sensitive and error-amplifying: false
  positives waste tokens and can induce harmful edits. Our empirical results show that
  HomeCheck achieves 100% precision (0 FP) on a stratified sample, supporting a “precision-
  first” oracle design.
∙ Stable identifiers. Each finding should carry a stable rule identifier (e.g., ruleId) that
  survives across runs and tool versions, enabling issue tracking, prompt templating, and
  iteration-to-iteration comparison.
∙ Structured localization. Beyond a message string, the oracle should emit machine-
  readable localization (file path, line/column, and preferably a code span / IR anchor) so
  the pipeline can programmatically extract context and apply targeted edits.
∙ Repair-oriented context boundaries. The oracle should support extracting a mini-
  mal, semantically coherent repair scope (e.g., enclosing statement/function/component
  and relevant dependencies), so prompts remain within context limits while preserving
  compilation and framework constraints.
2.4.2 On the role and limits of static oracles in low-resource repair. Static-oracle compliance
is not a behavioral correctness guarantee: it only certifies that a patch satisfies a finite,
rule-derived contract. However, in emerging ecosystems such as ArkTS/OpenHarmony, in-
dependent behavioral oracles are currently infeasible to deploy at scale because many apps
are UI- and lifecycle-driven, depend on system services and device/runtime variants, and
lack runnable tests or CI pipelines. Therefore, we intentionally scope our claims to guideline-
compliance repair : reducing oracle-detected rule violations under a frozen oracle configura-
tion. We complement these compliance metrics with a stratified semantic validation focused
on functional regressions (Section 5.3.1).

2.5   Retrieval-Augmented Generation
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) is a hybrid approach that combines the strengths
of retrieval systems and large language models. Unlike traditional LLM approaches, which
rely solely on the internal knowledge of the model itself, RAG leverages retrieval techniques
to incorporate external knowledge to improve generation. The retrieved knowledge from

                                              , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
6                         Zhihao Lin, Mingyi Zhou, Chi Chen, Yun Yang, Jun Wang, Chunming Hu, and Li Li


RAG is used in the prompt of LLMs; thus, it is very flexible. In the scenarios of defect
detection and repair, RAG is an important way to retrieve external defect knowledge, such
as similar defects, fixes, and best practices, to improve the generation of LLMs.

3     Preliminary Study
Before designing an oracle-guided repair workflow, we first ask whether an LLM can act as
the defect-localization oracle by itself in a low-resource language. We therefore conduct a
preliminary study on ArkTS that prompts a strong LLM to localize known rule violations.
The results show that LLM-only localization is unreliable—especially on multi-defect files—
which motivates a repair architecture where a precision-first static oracle provides structured
where-to-fix signals and iterative feedback, while the LLM focuses on how-to-fix synthesis.

3.1    Setting
3.1.1 Model. We use a powerful LLM, GPT-5.1, to conduct the preliminary experiment.
The decision to use GPT-5.1 for defect detection is based on the following considerations:
∙ GPT-5.1 performs strongly on many tasks, which indicates its capabilities.
∙ GPT-5.1 shows strong TypeScript/JavaScript proficiency, which supports ArkTS defect
  detection.
∙ This detection task requires analyzing full files and handling long contexts, and GPT-5.1
  can support such inputs.
∙ It is difficult to prepare enough training data of defect detection for ArkTS to fine tune
  a model.
3.1.2 Dataset. We build the preliminary-study dataset from an official OpenHarmony
XTS ArkUI module (List02), which contains 18 ArkTS files and 38 performance defects
(defined as unique (rule, line) triggers) across 8 performance rules. We manually construct
the ground truth defect locations by following the rule definitions and inspecting the source
code, and store it as a JSON file for evaluation. We further split the dataset into 6 single-
defect files and 12 multi-defect files to stress-test defect localization under multi-defect
settings.

3.2    Comparison
3.2.1 Steps. For each file, we provide the full ArkTS source code and a fixed set of perfor-
mance rule ids (the 8 rules appearing in the ground truth), and prompt the LLM to output
a JSON list of predicted violations with their 1-based line numbers (rule + line). We then
evaluate the LLM’s predictions at the defect level by matching (rule, line) pairs against the
ground truth and report precision, recall (coverage), and F1.

Table 1. LLM defect localization results on the OpenHarmony XTS module (defect-level matching by
(rule, line)).


    Group              #Files        GT      Pred Correct             Coverage         Precision
    Overall                   18       38         43            25         0.6579           0.5814
    Single-defect              6        6         11             6         1.0000           0.5455
    Multi-defect              12       32         32            19         0.5938           0.5938


, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
HapRepair : Static-Oracle–Guided LLM Repair                                                            7


3.2.2 Results. As shown in Table 1, using an LLM directly for defect localization yields
moderate overall coverage (0.66) and precision (0.58). In single-defect files, the LLM achieves
full coverage but over-reports. In multi-defect files, it consistently misses about 40% of the
ground-truth defects (coverage 0.59), indicating that LLM-only localization is unreliable for
multi-defect, real-world ArkTS files. Therefore, we avoid using LLMs as the defect localiza-
tion front-end, and instead introduce a static analysis component to provide precise defect
locations while letting LLMs focus on repairing the reported defects.

      Answer for this study: On multi-defect files, the LLM only localizes 19 out of 32
      ground-truth defects (coverage 0.59) and does not reliably recover all defect locations.
      This motivates using a static analysis tool as the defect localization front-end, while
      leveraging LLMs mainly for semantic repair.

3.3    Motivation of Our Approach
From the result of our preliminary study, we can see that relying solely on LLMs for defect
detection in ArkTS is unreliable, especially when a single file contains multiple defects
or long contexts. This motivates a more general research conclusion: LLM-based repair
needs a precision-first, structured localization oracle to (i) consistently enumerate repair
targets, and (ii) provide machine-actionable anchors for downstream context construction
and targeted edits. At the same time, traditional static analysis provides scalable rule-
based defect detection with structured outputs. Thus, we propose an overall framework
that leverages the complementary strengths of these two families of techniques. Specifically,
we design a defect repair framework that combines a static oracle, RAG and LLMs: the
static oracle is responsible for accurate defect localization and structured feedback, while
RAG and LLMs focus on generating context-conditioned semantic repairs for low-resource
programming languages like ArkTS.

4     Approach
This section presents HapRepair, our instantiation of static-oracle–guided LLM repair for
low-resource, test-scarce settings.

4.1    Overview
To address defect repair in low-resource programming languages, we propose HapRepair, an
automated iterative repair workflow that combines a static oracle, RAG, and LLMs. This
integrated approach leverages static analysis for precise defect localization and structured
feedback, while utilizing LLMs and RAG for generating targeted repair patches under lim-
ited training data. We instantiate and evaluate HapRepair on ArkTS/OpenHarmony as a
representative low-resource language/platform setting. The overall workflow of HapRepair
is illustrated in Figure 1.
    HapRepair has four main phases: Defect Detection, Defect Context Extraction, Knowledge-
Augmented Repair, and Verification. These phases form an iterative process. The Defect
Detection phase uses HomeCheck to detect defects in the original code and to re-check the
project after applying candidate patches. The Defect Context Extraction phase analyzes,
extracts, and combines surrounding context based on the oracle’s structured reports. The
Knowledge-Augmented Repair phase retrieves relevant repair knowledge from a defect-pair
knowledge database and a vector database to mitigate the knowledge gap of low-resource
languages. The Verification phase performs syntax/declaration sanity checks and re-runs

                                              , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
8                                  Zhihao Lin, Mingyi Zhou, Chi Chen, Yun Yang, Jun Wang, Chunming Hu, and Li Li


                                Defect Detection                                     Defect Context Extraction
                                                                                     Surrounding                      Context
                                    CodeLinter
                                                                                   Context Extractor               Combination Tool




                                                                                                       Embedding Model
                                   LLM Evaluate
                                   Functionality                                       Context

                                                                                                   Retrieval               Store

                                   ArkAnalyzer                                         Similar
                                                                        LLM
                                      CFG                                               Pairs
                                                                                                                 Vector            Defect
                                                                                                                Database           Pairs

                          Functionality Verification                          Knowledge-Augmented Repair


Fig. 1. Overview of the HapRepair. HapRepair has four main steps, including defect detection, defect
context extraction, knowledge-augmented repair, and iterative verification via re-checking.
HomeCheck to guide the next iteration; we further conduct stratified human-expert seman-
tic validation focused on functional regressions (Section 5.3.1).
   By integrating static analysis, LLMs, and RAG, HapRepair achieves a balance between
precision and flexibility. In our design, the static oracle decides what to repair and where;
RAG supplies concrete repair patterns for scarce-language rules; and the LLM performs
context-conditioned transformations that adapt these patterns to project-specific identifiers,
APIs, and lifecycle constraints. Its iterative and context-aware design supports both simple
and complex defects in low-resource languages, and we demonstrate its effectiveness on real-
world ArkTS/OpenHarmony projects. In other words, the static oracle provides a checkable
contract that defines where-to-fix, while the LLM is used for how-to-fix synthesis when the
correct edit operator is context- and semantics-dependent; when tests are missing, we treat
oracle compliance as verifiable progress rather than full semantic correctness.

4.2   HomeCheck for Defect Detection
As shown in Section 3, directly using LLMs as a defect detection tool is not the best choice,
particularly in scenarios like ArkTS where publicly available data are limited and multi-
defect files are common. To address this challenge, we build on ArkAnalyzer and design
HomeCheck as a static analysis engine to provide precise and scalable defect localization
for ArkTS code.

        1. Configuration & Input            2. Unified Scene (ArkAnalyzer)            3. Matcher-Driven Engine                        4. Fix & Report
                                                                                         Matchers (Dispatch)

                                                      **ViewTree**                             - ClassMatcher                               Issue Reports
              Config Manager                        (ArkUI Hierarchy)
              (projectConfig)                                                            - ViewTreeNodeMatcher                              (JSON/Table)
                                                                                             - MethodMatcher

                                                      Scope Graph                         Deep Analysis Utils
               File Discovery                          (Def/Use)
               (Glob/Ignore)                                                                                                                 Fix Engine
                                                                                              NumberUtils /
                                                                                               ScopeHelper
                                                                                           (Value Propagation)                              AST Fix (Lint)
                                                       AST & CFG
                                                                                                                                              ArkFile Fix
               SDK Resolver
               (OHOS/HMS)
                                                     Type Inference                             Checkers:                                   AI Fix Engine
                                                                                          Performance / Security




                                                 Fig. 2. Architecture of HomeCheck).


, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
HapRepair : Static-Oracle–Guided LLM Repair                                                            9


   Figure 2 gives an overview of the architecture of HomeCheck. Conceptually, HomeCheck
consists of four main modules: (1) a configuration and input manager that parses project and
rule configurations and discovers the set of ArkTS/TypeScript files to analyze; (2) a fron-
tend built on ArkAnalyzer that constructs a unified Scene with ASTs, control-flow graphs,
type information and symbol scopes; (3) a rule engine that maps files to enabled rules
and executes file-level and project-level checkers; and (4) a reporting layer that aggregates
checker outputs into structured defect reports.
   Compared to traditional linters such as ESLint, which operate on a single-file AST and
primarily enforce style or shallow correctness rules, HomeCheck is built as an ArkTS/Open-
Harmony–specific static analysis engine. It reasons over ArkAnalyzer’s IR that combines
AST, CFG, view-tree, type and scope information, and is aware of ArkUI-specific constructs
such as decorators (e.g., @Component, @State, @Entry) and declarative UI hierarchies. This
enables HomeCheck to express and check rules that require control-flow and data-flow rea-
soning (e.g., state access in loops, resource usage across callbacks) and UI-structure reason-
ing (e.g., LazyForEach configuration), which are beyond the reach of conventional linters.
   In designing HomeCheck, we also focus on its role as the analysis backbone of our repair
framework. Instead of merely emitting textual warnings, HomeCheck produces LLM-friendly
structured reports that attach to each defect a rule identifier, a natural-language descrip-
tion, a precise source location, and a stable unique key. These reports drive downstream
components: they determine which rules to repair, guide our context extraction module to
isolate minimal defect-snippet blocks, and enable iterative verification of repaired code. In
other words, HomeCheck is not only a detector, but also a defect-structuring front-end for
LLM-based repair.
   Engineering HomeCheck for real-world OpenHarmony apps is a substantial effort beyond
implementing rules. We build robust project ingestion (configuration parsing, SDK resolu-
tion, include/ignore patterns, and per-file disable directives), whole-project Scene construc-
tion, and scalable checker orchestration. We also standardize issue schemas with stable keys
so findings can be de-duplicated, tracked across repair iterations, and stored in a lightweight
dashboard database for large-scale experimentation and sampling.
                    Table 2. Abstractions used by HomeCheck performance rules


  Abstraction           # Rules       Description
  AST-only                   9        Local syntactic pattern checks that do not depend on
                                      CFG or ArkUI view-tree information.
  CFG / data-flow           78        Intra-procedural CFG-based rules that analyze vari-
                                      able/property definitions and uses along control-flow
                                      edges.
  ArkUI view tree           55        Rules that inspect ArkUI view-tree structure (e.g., con-
                                      tainer hierarchies and UI component properties).
  CFG + view tree           41        Rules that combine CFG-based reasoning with ArkUI
                                      view-tree traversal (e.g., performance issues involving
                                      both UI structure and control flow).
    Note: counts are per abstraction and are not mutually exclusive; a rule may use multiple
                          abstractions (e.g., both CFG and view tree).

   In the first stage, the configuration and input manager reads the project configuration
(e.g., project name and path, SDK paths, log settings) and the rule configuration (enabled

                                              , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
10                        Zhihao Lin, Mingyi Zhou, Chi Chen, Yun Yang, Jun Wang, Chunming Hu, and Li Li


rule sets, per-rule severity, file include/ignore patterns). It then discovers the relevant ArkT-
S/TypeScript files by recursively traversing the project directory, filtering files by extension
(e.g., .ets, .ts, .js) and excluding generated or third-party paths (e.g., node modules,
build outputs, test folders) based on glob patterns. File-level disable directives (e.g., a “dis-
able all checks” comment in the first line) are honored so that developers can opt out
individual files. To support different OpenHarmony SDK versions and third-party libraries,
the module resolves multiple SDK roots from the configuration and passes them into Ark-
Analyzer so that external type definitions and stubs are incorporated into the analysis.
   In the second stage, the ArkAnalyzer-based frontend constructs a global Scene for the
selected files. This Scene contains the abstract syntax trees (ASTs) for all ArkTS/Type-
Script files, control-flow graphs (CFGs) for individual methods, inferred type information,
and symbol scopes. On top of this Scene, the rule engine builds mappings from files to rules
according to the rule configuration and instantiates file-level and project-level checkers, each
encapsulated as a File2Check or Project2Check unit. A central check-entry component
orchestrates the execution of these units, tracks progress, and aggregates issues.
   The rule engine organizes rules into several categories, including performance, correct-
ness, security and ArkTS language-style rules. In total, HomeCheck currently maintains
over one hundred performance rules and several dozen correctness and security rules. In
this work we focus on performance rules that capture common anti-patterns observed in
real-world OpenHarmony apps, such as excessive state access in loops, missing cachedCount
in LazyForEach containers, inefficient logging, and misuse of image or sensor APIs. Each rule
is implemented as a checker that conforms to a common interface and registers one or more
matchers (e.g., file, class, method, statement or view-tree-node matchers) to specify which
program elements it inspects. During analysis, HomeCheck traverses the Scene and invokes
these checkers on matched nodes to detect violations. Many rules rely not only on syntactic
patterns but also on the semantic information computed by ArkAnalyzer. For instance, rules
such as NoStateVarAccessInLoop and ConstantPropertyReferencingInLoopsCheck use
CFG-based data-flow analysis to track the definitions and uses of @State variables or con-
stant properties and determine whether they are repeatedly accessed inside loop bodies,
while global-variable–related rules rely on scope and type information to distinguish local
state from shared state. Table 2 summarizes which program abstractions are used by our
performance rules, and Table 3 lists representative rules from each category.
   Given an ArkTS project 𝑃 , we denote by 𝐹 (𝑃 ) the set of ArkTS/TypeScript files selected
by the configuration and by 𝑆(𝑃 ) the Scene built by ArkAnalyzer for 𝑃 . Given a configured
rule set 𝑅, each rule 𝑟 ∈ 𝑅 defines a detection function 𝐷𝑟 over the Scene, 𝐷𝑟 : 𝑆(𝑃 ) → 2𝒟 ,
where 𝒟 is the universe of possible defect reports. ⋃︀   The overall detection result of Home-
Check is the union of all rule results, 𝐷static (𝑃 ) = 𝑟∈𝑅 𝐷𝑟 (𝑆(𝑃 )). In our framework, we
instantiate 𝑅 with the performance rule set and use 𝐷static (𝑃 ) as the initial set of candidate
performance defects to be repaired by HapRepair. Each checker computes its own 𝐷𝑟 (𝑆(𝑃 ))
in isolation, and the check-entry module aggregates them into 𝐷static (𝑃 ) and serializes it into
structured defect reports that record, for each defect, the rule identifier, a human-readable
description, the file path, and precise source location (line and column). As an example of
such a checker, Algorithm 1 sketches the core logic of the SetCachedCountForLazyforeach
rule, which inspects ArkUI view trees to detect missing cachedCount configurations.
   Compared to pure LLM-based detection, this static analysis pipeline reliably detects
defects and minimizes noise and inaccuracies, ensuring that repair decisions are anchored
on accurate insights. In our iterative framework, HomeCheck is also used after each repair


, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
HapRepair : Static-Oracle–Guided LLM Repair                                                           11


               Table 3. Representative performance rules implemented in HomeCheck


  Category                   Example rules                     Intuition
  Loop and state access state-var-in-loop,            Avoid repeatedly reading reac-
                        const-prop-in-loop            tive state or constant properties
                                                      inside loop bodies, which can
                                                      trigger unnecessary UI updates
                                                      or expensive computations.
  ArkUI container con-       lazyforeach-cache,       Ensure ArkUI list and grid con-
  figuration                 list-size,               tainers are configured with ap-
                             grid-layout-options      propriate cache and size options
                                                      to avoid excessive layout and ren-
                                                      dering overhead.
  Resource and API us-       sensor-usage,            Detect misuse or overuse of sen-
  age                        gps-usage, audio-usage, sors, GPS, audio and web re-
                             web-cache-mode           sources that may drain battery
                                                      or degrade performance.
  Logging and diagnos-       high-frequency-log,      Prevent heavy or frequent log-
  tics                       lazy-log-string          ging on performance-critical
                                                      paths, and encourage lazy con-
                                                      struction of log messages.
  Memory and lifecycle       animator-leak,           Check that animations, display
                             displaysync-leak,        sync objects and data-share
                             lottie-leak,             queries are correctly released to
                             datashare-unrelease      avoid memory leaks.
  Component and UI           component-tree-layers,   Limit excessive nesting and num-
  structure                  component-count,         ber of components, and remove
                             overuse-custom-component,redundant or unused state vari-
                             remove-redundant-state ables to simplify UI structure.
  Language and collec-       no-regex-in-loop,        Avoid creating regular expres-
  tion usage                 sparse-array,            sions, sparse arrays or temporary
                             avoid-alloc-in-build     objects inside hot code paths
                                                      such as loops or build() meth-
                                                      ods.
The full rule set contains 101 performance rules; here we list representative abstracted rule names
           (e.g., state-var-in-loop stands for rules like NoStateVarAccessInLoop and
 ConstantPropertyReferencingInLoopsCheck). The complete list of concrete rule identifiers is
                               available in our open-source repository.
iteration to re-scan the modified code and check whether any defects remain. If HomeCheck
still reports defects in a file, HapRepair continues the repair process for that file until no
defects are reported or a predefined maximum number of iterations is reached.


4.3   Defect Context Extraction
Defect context extraction computes a focused, semantically coherent repair scope for each
oracle finding. The extracted context is used both as the retrieval query (for RAG) and as
the code context provided to the LLM for patch synthesis.


                                              , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
12                        Zhihao Lin, Mingyi Zhou, Chi Chen, Yun Yang, Jun Wang, Chunming Hu, and Li Li


 Algorithm 1: Example Checker: SetCachedCountForLazyforeach
  Input: Scene 𝑆(𝑃 ) built by ArkAnalyzer, enabled performance rules
  Output: Defect reports for missing cachedCount in LazyForEach containers
  // Traverse ArkUI components with view trees
  foreach class 𝐶 in 𝑆(𝑃 ) do
     if 𝐶 has ArkUI view tree then
         𝑇 ← root node of view tree of 𝐶;
         foreach node 𝑛 in DFS(𝑇 ) do
            if 𝑛.name ∈ {Grid, List, Swiper, WaterFlow} then
                ℎ𝑎𝑠𝐿𝑎𝑧𝑦𝐹 𝑜𝑟𝐸𝑎𝑐ℎ ← false, ℎ𝑎𝑠𝐶𝑎𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑑𝐶𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡 ← false;
                // Check children for LazyForEach
                if there exists child 𝑐 of 𝑛 with 𝑐.name = LazyForEach then
                    ℎ𝑎𝑠𝐿𝑎𝑧𝑦𝐹 𝑜𝑟𝐸𝑎𝑐ℎ ← true;
                   // Check attributes for cachedCount
                   if cachedCount ∈ 𝑛.attributes then
                       ℎ𝑎𝑠𝐶𝑎𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑑𝐶𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡 ← true;
                   if ℎ𝑎𝑠𝐿𝑎𝑧𝑦𝐹 𝑜𝑟𝐸𝑎𝑐ℎ and not ℎ𝑎𝑠𝐶𝑎𝑐ℎ𝑒𝑑𝐶𝑜𝑢𝑛𝑡 then
                       // Query ArkAnalyzer for precise source location
                       (𝑓 𝑖𝑙𝑒, 𝑙𝑖𝑛𝑒, 𝑐𝑜𝑙) ← GetOriginPosition(𝑛);
                       Create a defect object 𝑑 with (𝑓 𝑖𝑙𝑒, 𝑙𝑖𝑛𝑒, 𝑐𝑜𝑙), rule id and
                        description;
                       Append 𝑑 to issues;


     return issues ;
   The defect localization information provided by HomeCheck reflects the line number
where the defect occurs. However, it is not enough to just use the line that a defect occurs
as context for repairing a defect. We need to precisely analyze and extract the surrounding
context of the defect for repair. For example, the rule ‘no-state-var-access-in-loop‘ used
in HomeCheck requires avoiding frequent access to state variables within loops, such as ‘for‘
or ‘while‘ structures. When this defect is detected, it is necessary to locate the surrounding
loop structure from the defect line.
   We propose two specialized tools, which are the Surrounding Context Extractor and
the Context Combination Tool to analyze, extract, and combine context. The Surrounding
Context Extractor is responsible for analyzing and extracting the surrounding context of
defect code, which helps identify the broader code context and dependencies. The Context
Combination Tool then merges defects that share overlapping contexts, allowing for better
repair suggestions for multi-defect files. Initially, we try to utilize LLMs to extract and
combine surrounding context. However, the result is not what we expect, which contains
irrelevant context and hallucination.
   Thus, we propose the static analysis approach to extract and combine context. The algo-
rithm is shown in Algorithm 2, which contains the following steps:

(1) Rule and Defect Code Initialization: Rules are loaded from a predefined file to
    determine whether the defect needs more context or not. If additional context is needed,
    the corresponding defect code is extracted for analysis; otherwise, the defect line itself is

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
HapRepair : Static-Oracle–Guided LLM Repair                                                           13


    directly used for retrieval and repair. Information on whether a rule requires additional
    context is open-sourced in our code.
(2) Defect Extraction: Each file is scanned by HomeCheck to identify defect lines, along
    with the associated defect type and description.
(3) Context Extraction: Extract surrounding code blocks for the defect’s line based on
    structural patterns and definitions or usages of key variables (e.g., @State). The nested
    blocks (e.g., inner scopes) will be filtered out to retain the blocks that are most relevant
    to the defect’s context.
(4) Context Combination: Overlapping or adjacent blocks are detected and combined
    using a grouping mechanism (e.g., Uni-onFind), ensuring comprehensive coverage of the
    context of the defect.
  Surrounding Context Extractor contains the first three steps and Context Combination
Tool contains the final step. These two tools ensure precise and reliable extraction of context,
which overcomes the limitations of the context window observed in LLMs.

 Algorithm 2: Defect Context Extraction Algorithm
  Input: Project Directory proj dir, Defect Directory defect dir, Rules File
           rules.json
  Output: Merged defect contexts for all files
  // Step 1: Rule and Defect Code Initialization
  rules dict ← LoadRulesFromJson(rules.json );
  Initialize empty merged results;
  foreach file in defect dir do
      // Step 2: Defect Extraction
      code lines, defects ← GetDefectsFromFile(file);
      if defects is empty then
          continue
      Initialize empty blocks;
      foreach defect in defects do
          // Step 3: Context Extraction
          context ← ExtractContext(code lines, defect.line, rules dict );
          Append context to blocks;
      // Step 4 : Context Combination
      merged blocks ← MergeOverlappingBlocks(blocks );
      Extend merged results with merged blocks;
  return merged results ;



4.4   Knowledge-Augmented Repair
We construct a defect-repair knowledge base to support RAG. In OpenHarmony applica-
tions, defects are broadly classified into six categories: General Rules (@typescript-eslint),
Security Rules (@security), Performance Rules (@performance), Preview Rules (@pre-
viewer), Cross-Device Deployment Rules (@cross-device-app-dev), and ArkTS Code Style
Rules (@hw-stylistic). Motivated by user-facing impact and common field issues, we focus
on performance rules while also including representative security rules to broaden coverage.

                                              , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
14                        Zhihao Lin, Mingyi Zhou, Chi Chen, Yun Yang, Jun Wang, Chunming Hu, and Li Li


  We manually craft 426 defect-repair pairs spanning 64 rule types (44 performance and 20
security). Each rule is equipped with 3–10 pairs. Each pair contains a defective snippet, a
manually produced repair, an explanation, and a diff (via difflib) that captures the edit
operations between the defective and repaired code.
  To support retrieval, we embed each defective snippet into a vector and index it in a vector
database. Given a defect-localized surrounding context from the Defect Context Extraction
phase, we embed the context as a query and retrieve the most similar defective snippets
under the same rule type; we then attach their corresponding repairs and explanations. We
avoid using the entire file as a query because it introduces irrelevant context and empirically
yields poorer retrieval relevance.
  Given the retrieved knowledge, HapRepair constructs a structured repair prompt that
includes the rule identifier and description, the defect-localized surrounding context, one or
more retrieved defect-repair examples (defective snippet, repaired snippet, and explanation),
and a diff-derived edit scaffold. This prompt structure supplies both what to fix (the oracle-
defined rule/context) and actionable how cues (examples and change operators) for the
LLM, which then generates a patch.

4.5   Verification
Establishing semantic correctness of repairs at scale is challenging: preparing and running
dynamic tests for 35 real-world OpenHarmony projects is expensive, and passing static rules
is not equivalent to preserving program semantics. Therefore, we adopt a lightweight but
scalable compliance-oriented verification loop in HapRepair : (1) we enforce syntax/decla-
ration sanity checks on LLM outputs to avoid obviously broken ArkTS (e.g., malformed
@State declarations), (2) we re-run HomeCheck after applying patches and iterate until
remaining defects converge under a frozen HomeCheck rule set and configuration, and (3)
if the post-fix scan fails or significantly regresses (e.g., introduces many new findings), we
roll back the patch at the project level. Because a scalable, independent behavioral oracle is
unavailable for most real-world ArkTS/OpenHarmony projects in our corpus, we addition-
ally conduct a stratified human-expert semantic validation focused on functional regressions
(Section 5.3.1).
   We provide CFG-guided LLM comparison prompts (Appendix) as an optional additional
signal; in the automated pipeline we only use CFG-based checks as lightweight guardrails to
reject clearly destructive edits (e.g., large deletions or stubbed replacements), rather than
enforcing full CFG equivalence, which can be overly conservative and reject defect-reducing
patches.

4.6   Implementation
The implementation of HapRepair integrates static analysis tools, an embedding model, a
vector database, and LLMs in a workflow to detect and repair defects in OpenHarmony
Apps.
   Static-analysis backend (static oracle). On the static-analysis side, HapRepair in-
vokes a static oracle instantiated by HomeCheck (HomeCheck) as a library component or
via a backend service. The pipeline is designed around oracle outputs (stable rule identifiers
+ structured localization), so the static backend can be treated as a research variable in a
broader oracle design space. Internally, HomeCheck follows the pipeline described in Fig-
ure 2: it parses the HomeCheck project and rule configurations (using a configuration utility
similar to ConfigUtils), discovers the set of ArkTS/TypeScript files to analyze, and then
relies on ArkAnalyzer to build a Scene that contains ASTs, CFGs, type information and

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
HapRepair : Static-Oracle–Guided LLM Repair                                                           15


scopes for the whole project. A check-entry object (analogous to CheckEntry) wires together
the Scene, file list and rule-to-file mappings, spawns file-level and project-level check units,
and iteratively executes them to collect issues. After analysis, HomeCheck aggregates all
issues into a structured JSON report (issuesReport.json) that contains, for each defect,
the rule identifier, a natural-language description, the file path, and precise source location
(line and column). This report is then parsed by HapRepair and fed into the subsequent
context-extraction and repair phases.
   Retrieval-augmented repair. For generating effective code fixes, HapRepair leverages
RAG that combines the capabilities of a vector database and a powerful large language
model. We utilize the Pinecone vector database to store and retrieve defect pairs, where
defective code vectors are indexed alongside metadata such as defect rules, descriptions,
defective code, repair code, and repair suggestions. At runtime, when the defect context
extractor returns a context block and a rule id, HapRepair embeds the context into a
vector and performs a top-𝑘 similarity search in the vector database constrained to the
corresponding rule. The retrieved defect–repair examples, together with the original rule
description and the extracted context, are then assembled into the prompt template de-
scribed in Section 4.3. This structured storage and retrieval pipeline enables efficient and
rule-aware retrieval of relevant examples based on both defect type and local code context.
   LLM integration. We interface with an LLM via API; the framework supports multiple
LLMs. The repair prompt includes: (1) the rule identifier and natural-language description
from HomeCheck, (2) the defect context extracted in Section 4.3, and (3) one or more
retrieved defect–repair examples and their diffs. The LLM returns a list of edit operations,
which we apply to the original ArkTS file.
   In our experiments, we use GPT-5.1 as the default LLM (accessed via API), and
stella en 1.5B v5 as the embedding model [15].

5     Evaluation
This section evaluates the static-oracle–guided repair paradigm in ArkTS/OpenHarmony:
whether a precision-first static oracle can provide reliable, structured where-to-fix signals
at scale, and whether an LLM-guided repair loop can translate these signals into effective
how-to-fix patches under test scarcity.

5.1     Experiment Setup
5.1.1    Research Question. The research questions evaluated in our study are shown below:
∙ RQ1: Can a precision-first static oracle provide sufficiently reliable and
  scalable defect signals to anchor repair in real-world ArkTS/OpenHarmony
  projects?
∙ RQ2: To what extent can static-oracle–guided LLM repair reduce guideline-
  rule violations under a frozen static oracle in real-world ArkTS/OpenHarmony
  projects?
∙ RQ3: Which components of HapRepair mitigate low-resource constraints
  (knowledge scarcity and long/multi-defect files) and how do they affect re-
  pair outcomes?
∙ RQ4: How does the choice of LLM interact with the oracle-guided repair loop
  and affect repair outcomes?
  RQ1 evaluates whether the static analyzer is precise and efficient enough to serve as a
repair oracle (a trustworthy, structured contract) at scale. RQ2 evaluates the end-to-end

                                              , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
16                        Zhihao Lin, Mingyi Zhou, Chi Chen, Yun Yang, Jun Wang, Chunming Hu, and Li Li


effectiveness of the oracle-guided repair loop in reducing oracle-detected guideline violations
under a frozen oracle configuration. RQ3 isolates the contributions of RAG and context
extraction/combination to address knowledge scarcity and long, multi-defect files. RQ4
examines the sensitivity of the workflow to model choice and how iterative oracle re-checking
compensates for weaker tool-following or patch consistency.
5.1.2 Dataset. To collect data of the knowledge-database that can be used for RAG, we
obtain the current defect types supported by HomeCheck from the official Huawei Developer
website [11]. In this work, we primarily focus on performance rules (@performance) because
performance primarily impacts the smooth of user experience and performance defect is an
important type when a defect occurs. In addition, we select several representative security
rules (e.g., resource and permission misuse) and include their corresponding defects to
demonstrate that the framework generalizes beyond purely performance-related issues. Our
knowledge database contains 426 defect-repair pairs spanning 64 rule types (44 performance
and 20 security). This dataset will then be leveraged as examples to support in-context
learning, which are used to augment the prompts prepared for LLMs.
   To construct the test dataset, we select data from three official open-sourced OpenHar-
mony organization repositories: OpenHarmony [17], OpenHarmony-SIG [20] and OpenHarmony-
TPC [43]. We rank projects by the number of detected findings (performance and security
separately) and select a balanced set of projects with higher finding counts in both categories;
the final selection contains 35 projects and is listed in revision/target projects haprepair.json.
The projects are collected from our November 2025 crawl. In this dataset, HomeCheck trig-
gers 39 performance rules and 3 security rules (42 in total), while the tool itself supports
more rules beyond those observed in this corpus. The baseline dataset contains 8,664 findings
(8,150 performance and 514 security). Test sets are strict hold-out sets: these 35 projects
are used only for evaluation and are excluded from the defect-pair knowledge database
construction and RAG indexing; the retrieval corpus is frozen before running HapRepair.
5.1.3 Model. For detection experiments (RQ1), HomeCheck serves as the static-analysis
engine. For repair experiments (RQ2 and RQ3), we use GPT-5.1 as the default LLM. In RQ4,
we compare GPT-5.1, GPT-5-mini, Qwen3-30B-A3B, Qwen3-Coder-Plus, and DeepSeek-
Chat to evaluate the impact of LLM choice. We choose these models to cover both commer-
cial and open-source options: GPT-5.1 represents a flagship commercial model and GPT-
5-mini a cost-efficient small commercial model, while Qwen3-30B-A3B, Qwen3-Coder-Plus,
and DeepSeek-Chat are widely used open-source models (general and code-oriented) that
enable reproducibility and test cross-family transfer. This mix captures performance–cost
trade-offs and deployment preferences in practice.
5.1.4 Embedding model. We use the stella en 1.5B v5 model, which is driven by a bal-
ance between performance and model size [38], to convert the defective code into an 8192-
dimensional vector to construct the vector database. With 1.5 billion parameters, the model
provides a good trade-off between computational efficiency and embedding accuracy, mak-
ing it suitable for large-scale language tasks without requiring excessive computational
resources. Embedding provides a semantic understanding of code and enables efficient re-
trieval for defect detection and repair.
5.1.5 Metric. For detection experiments (RQ1), we estimate precision via stratified ran-
dom sampling and report true positives and false positives by category (performance vs.
security). Due to the lack of a complete ground-truth corpus, we do not compute recall or
F1-score in this study.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
HapRepair : Static-Oracle–Guided LLM Repair                                                           17


   To evaluate the performance of HapRepair in repair experiments (RQ2 to RQ4), we adopt
two key metrics based on re-running HomeCheck after each repair iteration. These metrics
quantify guideline-rule compliance improvement—i.e., how many HomeCheck findings are
eliminated under a frozen rule set and configuration. In the ArkTS/OpenHarmony ecosys-
tem, scalable, independent behavioral oracles (e.g., runnable tests or CI-grade end-to-end
checks) are typically unavailable for real-world apps due to UI-driven behaviors, system-
service dependencies, and heterogeneous device/runtime conditions. Therefore, we treat
static-oracle compliance as the only scalable proxy for guideline intent at corpus scale (Sec-
tion 2.4.2), and complement it with a stratified human-expert semantic validation focused
on functional regressions (Section 5.3.1).


∙ Number of Remaining Oracle Findings: We count the number of HomeCheck find-
  ings after the repair process is completed (under the same frozen rule set/configuration)
  as the number of remaining oracle findings.
∙ Guideline-Compliance Repair Rate (static compliance): We measure the fraction
  of HomeCheck findings eliminated by accepted patches, where each patch must pass our
  verification loop (syntax/declaration sanity checks, a lightweight CFG-based structure-
  preservation guardrail, and HomeCheck re-checking under a frozen configuration). Given
  an initial scan finding count 𝑁0 and a post-repair scan count 𝑁𝑇 , the guideline-compliance
  repair rate is 𝑝gcr = (𝑁0 − 𝑁𝑇 )/𝑁0 .


5.1.6 Experimental Environment. HapRepair is evaluated on a workstation with Intel(R)
Xeon(R) Platinum 8352V 3.50GHz CPU (144 cores), 256GB RAM, 4 NVIDIA A100 PCIe
80GB GPUs, and Ubuntu 24.04.1 LTS operating system.


5.2   RQ1: Static-Oracle Precision and Reliability
To answer RQ1, we run HomeCheck on ArkTS OpenHarmony apps from our November
2025 crawl (repo new), enabling both performance and security rules. We import the scan
logs into the HomeCheck dashboard database (homecheck.sqlite), rank projects by total
defects, and select the top-20 projects whose root paths are under repo new. We then
draw a stratified random sample of 200 findings across rule category (performance vs. se-
curity), severity (ERROR/WARN/SUGGESTION), and project. The sampling procedure
and labeled data are provided for reproducibility. For each sampled finding, we record the
rule id, file path, line/column, message, and surrounding code context. Three engineers
with 2+ years of OpenHarmony/ArkTS experience independently label each finding as TP
or FP; disagreements are resolved by a third expert. In the sampled set, all findings are
confirmed as true defects (FP=0), yielding an estimated precision of 100%. We do not mea-
sure recall due to the lack of a complete ground-truth corpus, and discuss this limitation
in the threats section. Efficiency. Beyond precision, a practical repair oracle must be fast
enough to re-check projects iteratively. In our main evaluation setting (35 projects), the
CodeLinter/HomeCheck scan processes 4,881 project files in 26.2 minutes in total (median
20.8 seconds per project; p90 93.2 seconds; max 346.3 seconds), corresponding to about
3.1 files/second and about 5.5 findings/second under our frozen configuration. This makes
whole-project re-checking practical within an iterative repair loop.


                                              , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
18                        Zhihao Lin, Mingyi Zhou, Chi Chen, Yun Yang, Jun Wang, Chunming Hu, and Li Li


      Answer for RQ1: Low-resource repair only works if the inputs are reliable: Home-
      Check achieves 100% precision (0 FP) on a stratified sample of 200 findings, which
      means the LLM is not wasting effort on false alarms. This anchors the entire pipeline
      on high-confidence defects and makes downstream repair feasible.




5.3    RQ2: Reducing Oracle-Detected Guideline Violations
To answer RQ2, we run the full static-oracle–guided repair loop on the 35-project test set
and target the HomeCheck findings (guideline-rule violations) reported under a frozen rule
set and configuration. For each oracle finding, HapRepair constructs a focused prompt
by (i) extracting and combining defect-relevant surrounding context and (ii) retrieving
representative defect-repair examples from the RAG knowledge base. The prompt provides
the rule identifier and description, the defect-localized context, retrieved examples (defective
and repaired snippets with explanations), and a change-aware edit scaffold. Figure 3 shows
an example prompt template. Conditioned on this structured input, the LLM synthesizes a
patch. We apply the patch, run syntax/declaration sanity checks (to avoid broken ArkTS
declarations), and re-run HomeCheck as the oracle verifier for the next iteration; if the post-
fix scan fails or significantly regresses, we roll back the patch at the project level. We use
GPT-5.1 as the default LLM for this evaluation. We use HapRepair to conduct a 5-iteration
repair process. The initial defect counts in Table 4 and Table 5 are taken from the round 1
scan of the GPT-5.1 run to avoid tool-version variance in static analysis. We evaluate the
number of remaining oracle findings and the guideline-compliance repair rate of each project
using HapRepair at each iteration. Furthermore, we summarize remaining oracle findings
by category (performance vs. security) at each iteration. The results are shown in Table 4
and Table 5.
   Table 4 shows that the number of remaining oracle findings decreases for each project
and achieves a high overall guideline-compliance repair rate, reaching about 97% after five
iterations (236 remaining findings from 8,664 scan-detected findings). For example, the
project acts validator starts with the largest number of findings (1,357) and is reduced
to only 1 after two iterations. The project wifi testapp is reduced from 544 to 40 by the
fourth iteration. Overall, HapRepair is broadly effective across diverse projects, while a few
projects (e.g., Image) remain more challenging.
   Table 5 summarizes remaining oracle findings by category. In this run, HomeCheck trig-
gers 40 rule types (37 performance and 3 security) out of the 42 enabled. Both categories
steadily improve, and security findings drop to 2 by the third iteration.
   A potential concern is that a high overall guideline-compliance repair rate could be dom-
inated by trivial findings. To make the picture more informative, we stratify findings by
difficulty proxies derived from our context extraction process: (i) local context size (number
of lines in the extracted repair context), (ii) syntactic nesting depth (brace depth) at the
finding location, (iii) whether the finding requires multiple disjoint code snippets in the
prompt (cross-function/fragment context), and (iv) whether multiple findings are merged
into one overlapping context group. We bucket findings into three groups: trivial local fixes
(single-fragment, small context, shallow depth), context-sensitive fixes (single-finding but
larger/deeper context), and multi-finding merged context (multi-finding and cross-fragment
context). Table 6 reports guideline-compliance repair rates per bucket.


, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
HapRepair : Static-Oracle–Guided LLM Repair                                                           19


    Prompt Template for Fixing Defects

   You are a code defect repair expert in ArkTS. I will give you an example of the
   same type of defect of the code and the defect code surrounding context, please
   help me repair.
   Defect Type:
   hp-arkui-set-cache-count-for-lazyforeach-grid
   Description:
   It is recommended to set a reasonable cacheCount when using
   LazyForEach under the Grid.

    Demo 1:
    Problem Code:
    LazyForEach(this.data, (item:number) => { GridItem() }
    .margin(10).height(500))
    Fix Explanation:
    Should set a reasonable cacheCount when using LazyForEach
    Repaired Code:
    LazyForEach(this.data, (item:number) => { GridItem() }
    .margin(10).height(500)).cacheCount(2)

    Following is the difflib results of repairing buggy code into fixed code:
    [Changes]

    Here’s the surrounding context to be fixed:
    [Surrounding Context]

   Your output should follow the following json format:
   [
       {
            "type": "modify | add |delete",
            "line": [line number],
            "code": "[line code]"
       }
   ]


                            Fig. 3. Example of Fixing an ArkTS’s Defects
  From Table 4 and Table 5, we can also see that as the iteration progresses, the number of
remaining oracle findings gradually decreases and the guideline-compliance repair rate in-
creases. After five iterations, most oracle-reported guideline violations are eliminated under
the frozen static oracle. This result supports the iterative strategy of HapRepair.




                                              , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
20                            Zhihao Lin, Mingyi Zhou, Chi Chen, Yun Yang, Jun Wang, Chunming Hu, and Li Li


Table 4. Remaining oracle findings and guideline-compliance repair rate of projects across iterations
(GPT-5.1, scan-based initial findings).

Project                                       Initial (scan)   Iteration 1   Iteration 2   Iteration 3 Iteration 4   Iteration 5
PullLinking                                              36      0 (100%)      0 (100%)      0 (100%)     0 (100%)     0 (100%)
cameraAnimSample                                         11       2 (82%)       2 (82%)       2 (82%)      2 (82%)      2 (82%)
JS dialog box static                                    100      0 (100%)      0 (100%)      0 (100%)     0 (100%)     0 (100%)
ace ets module router1                                   99       4 (96%)       1 (99%)      0 (100%)     0 (100%)     0 (100%)
ace ets module navigation1                               89      0 (100%)      0 (100%)      0 (100%)     0 (100%)     0 (100%)
ace ets module commonAttrsLayout api11                   85       2 (98%)       2 (98%)       2 (98%)      2 (98%)      2 (98%)
ace ets module RouteManagement api12                     84       2 (98%)       1 (99%)      0 (100%)     0 (100%)     0 (100%)
applications permission manager                          80       5 (94%)       3 (96%)       3 (96%)      2 (98%)      2 (98%)
ace ets module imageText api16                           76      0 (100%)      0 (100%)      0 (100%)     0 (100%)     0 (100%)
ace ets component common attrss flex001                  72      0 (100%)      0 (100%)      0 (100%)     0 (100%)     0 (100%)
audio suite                                              92       1 (99%)       1 (99%)       1 (99%)     0 (100%)     0 (100%)
applications photos                                      96       5 (95%)       3 (97%)       3 (97%)      3 (97%)      3 (97%)
applications systemui                                    74      14 (81%)      10 (86%)      10 (86%)      9 (88%)      9 (88%)
ace ets component common attrss flex nowear              72      0 (100%)      0 (100%)      0 (100%)     0 (100%)     0 (100%)
acts validator                                         1357      23 (98%)      1 (100%)      1 (100%)     0 (100%)     1 (100%)
TextComponentTest                                       727      1 (100%)      1 (100%)      1 (100%)     1 (100%)     1 (100%)
wifi testapp                                            544      62 (89%)      55 (90%)      51 (91%)     40 (93%)     40 (93%)
bluetoothtest                                           503      34 (93%)      18 (96%)      12 (98%)     10 (98%)     10 (98%)
Info                                                    485       9 (98%)       3 (99%)       3 (99%)      3 (99%)      3 (99%)
ace ets module nowear waterflow                         471      1 (100%)      1 (100%)      1 (100%)     1 (100%)     1 (100%)
ace ets module swiper                                   457      56 (88%)      35 (92%)      27 (94%)     24 (95%)     24 (95%)
Image                                                   456     109 (76%)      94 (79%)      85 (81%)     79 (83%)     79 (83%)
ace ets module navigation api12                         452      0 (100%)      0 (100%)      0 (100%)     0 (100%)     0 (100%)
ace ets module scroll nowear api12                      420      0 (100%)      0 (100%)      0 (100%)     0 (100%)     0 (100%)
ace ets module swiper api11                             392      48 (88%)      30 (92%)      24 (94%)     22 (94%)     21 (95%)
ace ets module imageText api12                          324       2 (99%)      0 (100%)      0 (100%)     0 (100%)     0 (100%)
asn1 ber                                                324      1 (100%)      1 (100%)      1 (100%)     1 (100%)     1 (100%)
ohos dfu library                                        167      10 (94%)       4 (98%)       2 (99%)      2 (99%)      2 (99%)
ohos mail base                                          142      20 (86%)      15 (89%)      15 (89%)     15 (89%)     14 (90%)
flutter embedding                                       123      55 (55%)       4 (97%)       1 (99%)      1 (99%)      1 (99%)
HealthyPotAssistant                                      56       6 (89%)       3 (95%)       2 (96%)      2 (96%)      2 (96%)
ohos cordova                                             35       8 (77%)       4 (89%)       4 (89%)      4 (89%)      4 (89%)
shopping                                                117      19 (84%)      11 (91%)      11 (91%)     11 (91%)     11 (91%)
YFree HarmonyOS                                          23       5 (78%)       4 (83%)       3 (87%)      3 (87%)      3 (87%)
CanvasTest                                               23       1 (96%)      0 (100%)      0 (100%)     0 (100%)     0 (100%)
Total                                                  8664     505 (94%)     307 (96%)     265 (97%)   237 (97%)     236 (97%)


Table 5. Remaining oracle findings and guideline-compliance repair rate by category across iterations
(GPT-5.1).

 Category          Initial (scan)       Iteration 1        Iteration 2        Iteration 3       Iteration 4     Iteration 5
 performance                   8150       472 (94%)            300 (96%)        263 (97%)         235 (97%)          234 (97%)
 security                       514        33 (94%)              7 (99%)         2 (100%)          2 (100%)           2 (100%)
 Total                        8664        505 (94%)            307 (96%)        265 (97%)         237 (97%)          236 (97%)

Table 6. Repair effectiveness stratified by defect difficulty proxies (GPT-5.1, 35 projects; scan-detected
defects).

 Bucket                               Initial     Remaining          Fixed      Guideline-Compliance Repair Rate
 Trivial local fixes                    4,306                   64    4,242                                              98.5%
 Context-sensitive fixes                3,531                  113    3,418                                              96.8%
 Multi-defect merged context              827                   59      768                                              92.9%
 Total                                 8,664                   236   8,428                                              97.3%

      Answer for RQ2: In a test-scarce setting, HapRepair translates static-oracle find-
      ings into guideline-compliant patches: with GPT-5.1, remaining oracle findings drop
      from 8,664 (baseline scan) to 236 after five iterations on 35 projects (𝑝gcr ≈ 97%).
      Most compliance improvements arrive early, while a small tail of harder, non-local
, Vol.cases
       1, No.remains.
              1, ArticleThese
                        . Publication
                               resultsdate: December
                                       should        2025.
                                               be interpreted as guideline-compliance progress
      under a frozen static oracle, not as a proof of full semantic correctness.
HapRepair : Static-Oracle–Guided LLM Repair                                                           21


Table 7. Human-expert semantic validation of oracle-resolved repairs on a stratified file-level sample
(two independent ArkTS/OpenHarmony experts; 𝑛 = 150 files).


  Item                                Count      Share                          95% CI / Notes
  Correct                                 147     98.0%
  Suspicious                                0      0.0%
  Incorrect (regression)                    3      2.0%
  Correctness (weighted)                          97.8%              [94.8%, 100.0%]
  Regression rate (weighted)                       2.2%                  [0.0%, 5.2%]
  Inter-rater agreement                           92.0% PABAK=0.84; Gwet’s AC1=0.91
5.3.1 Semantic correctness of repairs. The guideline-compliance repair rate above is a com-
pliance metric based on HomeCheck re-checking (and our lightweight guardrails): a patch
that eliminates an oracle-reported guideline violation can still be semantically wrong. Be-
cause most real-world ArkTS/OpenHarmony projects in our corpus lack runnable tests
and an independent behavioral oracle is difficult to deploy at scale, we use a lightweight,
complementary semantic validation via stratified sampling at the file level. We sample re-
paired files where one or more HomeCheck findings disappear between consecutive scans
and present two independent ArkTS/OpenHarmony experts with (i) the full file before re-
pair, (ii) the full file after repair, and (iii) the list of fixed findings in that file. Each file
is labeled as Correct (no functional regression/omission is identified), Suspicious (unclear
from static evidence), or Incorrect (a functional regression/omission is identified). In our
main analysis we focus on functional correctness: we treat a file as Incorrect only when
both experts flag a functional regression; otherwise we label it Correct. Table 7 reports the
resulting (weighted) semantic correctness estimate over the oracle-resolved population. Let
𝑞 denote the estimated semantic failure rate among     ∑︀ oracle-resolved repairs (functional re-
gression), computed with stratified weights 𝑞 = ℎ 𝑤ℎ 𝑞ℎ where 𝑞ℎ is the within-stratum
regression rate and 𝑤ℎ is the stratum’s share in the oracle-resolved population; then the
expert-validated semantic repair rate is 𝑝sem|gcr = 1 − 𝑞, and we report a calibrated semantic
repair rate 𝑝cal = 𝑝gcr · 𝑝sem|gcr = 𝑝gcr · (1 − 𝑞). For inter-rater consistency on the binary
regression decision (regression vs. no regression), percent agreement is 92.0%; due to strong
prevalence toward “no regression,” we also report prevalence-robust agreement measures
(PABAK=0.84 and Gwet’s AC1=0.91).


5.4   RQ3: Ablation Study
In this RQ, we analyze the factors that can affect the performance of HapRepair. Unless
otherwise stated, all ablation experiments are conducted on the extended dataset that in-
cludes defects from both performance and selected security rules. There are several factors
that will affect the performance of HapRepair, including the number of similar defect repair
examples retrieved for in-context learning during RAG, the context used as the retrieval
query and prompt, and the changes of repaired code. For each factor, we conduct an ablation
study to evaluate the influence. To control cost and time, we run a single repair iteration
on all 35 projects using GPT-5.1.
   Guideline-compliance repair rates in RQ3 are computed with respect to the baseline
finding count (8,664).


                                              , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
22                          Zhihao Lin, Mingyi Zhou, Chi Chen, Yun Yang, Jun Wang, Chunming Hu, and Li Li


Table 8. Summary of RQ3 ablations (Round 1, 35 projects). Bold indicates the best setting within each
factor; (default) marks the configuration used in our main experiments.

 Factor           Setting                         Remaining Findings Guideline-Compliance Repair Rate
                  No RAG                                         5052                               42%
                  Top-1 (default)                                 505                               94%
 RAG examples
                  Top-3                                           444                               95%
                  Top-5                                          1118                               87%
                  Surrounding context (default)                   505                               94%
 Context
                  Entire code                                    2870                               67%
                  No diff                                        1932                               78%
 Diff             Difflib changes (default)                       505                               94%
                  GPT-diff changes                                476                               95%

   We design four settings (no RAG, Top-1, Top-3, and Top-5) to evaluate the influence
of the number of retrieved defect-repair examples. Table 8 shows that HapRepair achieves
substantially fewer remaining findings and a higher guideline-compliance repair rate with
retrieval than without it, indicating that the LLM benefits from repair experience surfaced
by RAG. Regarding the number of retrieved examples, Top-3 performs best (444 remaining
findings, 95%), while Top-1 is close. Top-5 is worse than Top-1/Top-3 (1,118 remaining
findings, 87%), suggesting that additional examples can introduce noise. Without RAG,
the guideline-compliance repair rate drops sharply, confirming the importance of retrieval.
   Besides, the context used for retrieval is an important factor that will affect the retrieval
results, and the context used in the prompt directly shapes the model’s edits. Thus, we
compare two context strategies: (i) the surrounding context used in HapRepair (default)
and (ii) the entire file that contains the defect. Table 8 shows that surrounding context (505
remaining findings, 94%) substantially outperforms entire-code context (2,870 remaining
findings, 67%). We attribute this gap to the “low-resource” nature of ArkTS repair: full-file
context is long and noisy (e.g., boilerplate and unrelated code), which dilutes defect cues and
can be truncated by both the embedding model and the LLM context window, leading to less
relevant retrieved examples and more distracted patch generation. By contrast, extracting
defect-centered surrounding context acts as a compression step that preserves the most
informative signals for retrieval and editing.
   We also evaluate whether explicit change guidance improves patch synthesis by compar-
ing three diff representations in the prompt: difflib-generated changes (default), GPT-diff
changes, and no diff. Table 8 shows that removing diffs sharply increases remaining find-
ings, while GPT-diff slightly improves over difflib, supporting the value of diff-based edit
scaffolding for precise, localized repairs.
   We report only the total remaining findings and guideline-compliance repair rates for each
ablation setting in Table 8 to keep the comparison concise. Project-level breakdowns are still
available in Appendix Tables 10–12. Top-3 improves 11 projects over Top-1 and regresses in
11, yet yields the lowest overall total; Top-5 regresses in 25 projects, explaining its weaker
aggregate result. Full-context retrieval worsens 26/35 projects, while removing diffs increases
remaining findings in 21/35 projects; GPT-diff slightly improves 12/35 projects.




, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
HapRepair : Static-Oracle–Guided LLM Repair                                                           23


      Answer for RQ3: Ablations connect the method to the low-resource challenge:
      RAG injects missing repair knowledge, surrounding-context focus prevents distrac-
      tion from long files, and change-aware prompts enforce precise edits. Top-3 retrieval
      yields the best repair rate, while our main configuration uses Top-1 for a cost-effective
      baseline; GPT-diff slightly outperforms difflib, supporting the value of diff-based edit
      scaffolding.

5.5    Why does the combination work? Transferable principles and component roles
TOSEM readers are often less interested in an engineering pipeline per se than in the
transferable principles that make the pipeline effective. We summarize what our results
imply about the roles of each component and the corresponding reusable insights.
   Static oracles are not about coverage; they are about repairability. A large rule
set helps discover more issues, but it does not by itself make LLM repair work. What
matters for repair is that the defect signal is (i) precise enough to avoid wasting edits
and (ii) structured enough to drive programmatic context construction. Our preliminary
study shows that even a strong LLM is unreliable as a localization front-end on multi-
defect ArkTS files (Section 3), while RQ1 shows that HomeCheck provides a precision-first
defect signal (0 FP on a stratified sample). Together with the oracle properties distilled
in Section 2.4.1, these results support a general conclusion: LLM repair needs a precision-
first, structured localization oracle. This choice implies an explicit trade-off: improvements
are bounded to oracle-detected defects, and repairable-but-undetected issues remain out of
scope when oracle recall is limited; however, in the absence of tests, avoiding false positives is
often more critical than exhaustive coverage. Conceptually, weaker or noisier oracles would
mainly reduce yield (coverage) and trust (verification) rather than change the underlying
separation of roles in the paradigm.
   LLMs contribute context-conditioned program transformations (beyond tem-
plates). Many guideline rules admit “one-line” fixes (e.g., adding a missing configuration),
suggesting that templates could solve a subset of cases. However, our corpus includes rule
categories where correct edits are context-dependent and may require multi-site changes:
state/loop fixes often require hoisting computations while preserving reactive semantics; life-
cycle/resource rules require inserting releases at the right callback sites; and UI-structure
fixes must respect local component hierarchies and identifiers (Table 3). In these cases,
the oracle typically localizes where a violation manifests, but the how of repair remains
under semantic uncertainty (which edit operator, which scope, and which project-specific
identifiers/hooks must be preserved), motivating the LLM as a context-conditioned synthe-
sizer. Consistent with this, repair effectiveness degrades as defect contexts become larger
and more entangled: while trivial local fixes achieve 98.5%, the multi-defect merged context
bucket drops to 92.9% (Table 6), highlighting the non-locality that templates struggle to
cover uniformly.
   When are templates sufficient, and when do we need LLMs? The distinction
is not whether a defect is detected by “a rule”, but whether the repair has low vs. high
degrees of freedom. Our rule taxonomy and implementation abstractions (Table 2) imply
two repair regimes:
∙ Template-sufficient (low freedom, local, syntax-driven). These repairs are single-
  site edits where both the location and edit operator are largely predetermined: adding a

                                              , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
24                        Zhihao Lin, Mingyi Zhou, Chi Chen, Yun Yang, Jun Wang, Chunming Hu, and Li Li


  missing argument/property, replacing an API parameter with a recommended constant,
  switching to a semantically equivalent local construct, or inserting a small guard. Such
  cases often depend only on AST-local information and do not require reasoning about
  control-flow, lifecycles, or component structure. They are amenable to conservative de-
  terministic fixing because the risk of functional regression is low and the change can be
  validated by re-checking the corresponding rule.
∙ LLM-needed (high freedom, semantic- and structure-dependent). These repairs
  require choosing among multiple valid edit locations or strategies, and typically span mul-
  tiple statements or scopes: (i) data-flow/hoisting fixes that cache or move computations
  out of loops while preserving reactive semantics and dependencies, (ii) lifecycle/protocol
  fixes that add paired cleanup (e.g., close/release/destroy) along all relevant paths and in
  the correct callbacks, and (iii) UI-structure refactor fixes that reshape component trees
  (e.g., replacing nested custom components with builders, changing binding patterns such
  as prop/link forms) while maintaining identifiers and local UI contracts. These cases align
  with rules that rely on CFG/data-flow and/or ArkUI view trees (Table 2) and therefore
  resist one-size-fits-all templates.
∙ Why templates break in practice. Across the above high-freedom cases, static rule
  violations often localize the symptom but not the full repair scope: correct patches depend
  on project-specific naming, available lifecycle hooks, and surrounding invariants (e.g.,
  where state is mutated, how callbacks are wired, what identifiers must remain stable).
  The same rule can require different repair operators depending on context (introduce
  a local cache vs. refactor a state field; insert cleanup in an existing callback vs. create
  a new one). This variability makes deterministic templates either overly narrow (low
  applicability) or overly aggressive (higher regression risk), motivating the use of LLMs as
  context-conditioned transformers guided by a static oracle.
  RAG reduces “knowledge gap” errors, but retrieval noise can mislead. The
ablation results quantify what RAG is buying: without retrieval examples, the round-1
guideline-compliance repair rate drops to 42% (Table 8). This indicates that, in a low-
resource language, rule descriptions and local code alone are often insufficient for the LLM
to reliably instantiate the correct repair pattern. At the same time, Top-5 performs worse
than Top-1/Top-3, suggesting a general caution: retrieval quantity trades off with relevance,
and extra examples can introduce conflicting patterns or distract the model.
   Structured prompts act as edit scaffolding. Our diff ablation shows that providing
explicit change guidance is not a cosmetic choice: removing diffs increases remaining findings
from 505 to 1,932 in round 1 (Table 8). This supports a reusable prompt-design insight:
for patch-based repair, LLMs benefit from edit scaffolding that constrains outputs toward
minimal, localized changes rather than free-form rewriting.
   Failure modes: remaining tail reflects non-locality and tool-following brittle-
ness. The residual tail after iterative repair concentrates in harder contexts (Table 6) and
is sensitive to model families (RQ4). The weaker performance of a general open model
(Qwen3-30B-A3B) is consistent with failures in strict patch formatting and ArkTS-specific
syntax under long prompts, while occasional late-round regressions (e.g., DeepSeek-Chat)
reinforce the need for iterative re-checking and rollback. These patterns suggest two general
directions for future repair systems: (i) strengthen the oracle with richer, stable localization
anchors (e.g., spans/IR ids) to better support non-local edits, and (ii) combine deterministic
auto-fixes for clearly local rules with LLM-based repair for context-dependent cases.

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
HapRepair : Static-Oracle–Guided LLM Repair                                                               25



                                                               GPT-5.1                 Qwen3-Coder-Plus
                    8000                                       GPT-5-mini
                                                               Qwen3-30B-A3B
                                                                                       DeepSeek-Chat
Remaining defects




                    6000

                    4000

                    2000

                       0
                           Init         R1          R2               R3             R4              R5
                                                         Iteration

Fig. 4. Remaining oracle findings across repair iterations for different LLMs (Original/Init denotes the
baseline scan of 8,664 findings).
5.6                 RQ4: Performance of different LLMs in HapRepair
Model choice can affect repair outcomes, especially in a low-resource language with strict
syntax and tool-following requirements. To answer RQ4, we evaluate GPT-5.1, GPT-5-
mini, Qwen3-30B-A3B, Qwen3-Coder-Plus, and DeepSeek-Chat within the same HapRepair
workflow. For each LLM, we run HapRepair on the same extended dataset that contains
defects from both performance and selected security rules to ensure a fair comparison.

Table 9. Remaining oracle findings and guideline-compliance repair rate after Round 5 for different
LLMs (baseline findings = 8,664).


               Model                 R5 Remaining      Guideline-Compliance Repair Rate
               GPT-5.1                           236                                             97%
               GPT-5-mini                        170                                             98%
               Qwen3-30B-A3B                    1351                                             84%
               Qwen3-Coder-Plus                  253                                             97%
               DeepSeek-Chat                     235                                             97%


   Figure 4 and Table 9 show that GPT-5-mini achieves the lowest remaining findings af-
ter five iterations (170, 98%), while GPT-5.1, Qwen3-Coder-Plus, and DeepSeek-Chat are
close (97%+). Qwen3-30B-A3B improves steadily but lags behind. We also observe a small
non-monotonicity for DeepSeek-Chat between iterations 4 and 5, indicating occasional re-
gressions. Overall, the framework transfers well across different model families. The iteration
curves indicate that stronger models converge faster in early rounds, while mid-tier models

                                                  , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
26                        Zhihao Lin, Mingyi Zhou, Chi Chen, Yun Yang, Jun Wang, Chunming Hu, and Li Li


(e.g., Qwen3-Coder-Plus) benefit more from additional iterations, suggesting that the itera-
tive verification loop compensates for weaker tool-following or patch consistency. The slight
regression in DeepSeek-Chat at R5 implies that later-round patches can reintroduce issues,
reinforcing the need for static re-checking. For Qwen3-30B-A3B, the slower convergence
likely reflects its role as a general open model rather than a code-specialized one: it may be
less reliable at strict JSON patch formatting, precise line edits, and ArkTS-specific syntax
under long-context prompts, which can reduce accepted fixes. Per-project remaining find-
ings for the default model are reported in Table 4; model-specific per-project breakdowns
are provided in Appendix Table 13.

     Answer for RQ4: Model comparisons complete the story: even in a low-resource
     language, the framework transfers across model families. Strong commercial mod-
     els and code-oriented open models achieve similar high guideline-compliance re-
     pair rates under the same static oracle, while a general open model (Qwen3-30B-
     A3B) lags—consistent with weaker code/ArkTS alignment. This supports practical
     cost–performance trade-offs without abandoning the oracle-guided pipeline.


6    Threats to Validity
   Threats to internal validity. First, the defect pairs are constructed manually, so the
quality of the defect pairs in the knowledge database may affect the performance. We con-
struct these defect pairs according to documented developer guidelines (performance and
security rules), and the experimental results indicate the effectiveness of these guideline-
driven repairs. Test sets are strict hold-out sets: the 35 evaluation projects are used only for
testing and are excluded from both (i) the manual construction of the defect-pair knowledge
database and (ii) the RAG vector index; the retrieval corpus is frozen before evaluation and
does not ingest any code from the evaluation projects. We also do not fine-tune any LLM
on the evaluation projects. Nevertheless, because LLMs are pretrained on broad public cor-
pora, we cannot fully rule out incidental pretraining exposure to some public OpenHarmony
code; our hold-out claim is with respect to our constructed datasets and retrieval knowl-
edge base. Second, our main repair metrics are based on re-running HomeCheck under
a frozen rule set/configuration (remaining oracle findings and guideline-compliance repair
rate); this measures guideline-rule compliance improvement, but passing static rules is not
equivalent to semantic correctness. Since most ArkTS/OpenHarmony projects in our cor-
pus lack runnable tests and a scalable, independent behavioral oracle is currently infeasible
to deploy at corpus scale (e.g., due to UI-driven behaviors and system-service dependen-
cies), we complement compliance metrics with a stratified human-expert semantic validation
focused on functional regressions and agreement-based labeling between two independent
ArkTS/OpenHarmony experts (Section 5.3.1). Because “no-regression” labels dominate and
some agreement coefficients are sensitive to class imbalance, we report multiple agreement
measures (percent agreement, PABAK, and Gwet’s AC1) rather than relying on a single coef-
ficient. Nevertheless, our evaluation should be interpreted as improving compliance with the
covered guideline rules rather than proving full semantic correctness. In addition, because
the repair loop is triggered and verified by HomeCheck, our measurements are necessarily
bounded to oracle-detected defects; repairable-but-undetected issues are not counted when
oracle recall is limited, reflecting a precision-first design choice rather than complete defect
coverage. Third, since there are various LLMs, the LLM used in HapRepair may not be the
best choice. We evaluate five LLMs and observe consistent gains across model families, but

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
HapRepair : Static-Oracle–Guided LLM Repair                                                           27


absolute performance can vary by model and serving setup. In addition, if there is a better
LLM, it is easy to use it in HapRepair.

   Threats to external validity. First, HapRepair focuses on performance defects and a
small set of security defects, so it is unclear whether HapRepair can work well for other
types of defects. However, since LLMs can learn repair patterns from examples, the workflow
can in principle be extended by curating defect-repair examples for additional defect types.
Second, HapRepair is designed for ArkTS, so it is unclear whether HapRepair can work well
for other programming languages. However, the static-oracle–guided paradigm assumes the
availability of a reasonably precise oracle that can provide actionable, structured localization
signals; if the oracle is substantially weaker or noisier, the workflow may still apply but
will likely see reduced coverage and weaker verification, motivating oracle strengthening
and multi-oracle combinations. We expect the overall where-to-fix/how-to-fix separation to
transfer to other ecosystems that can provide such an oracle.

7     Related Work
A useful way to position automated defect repair is by the oracle used to validate candidate
patches, which largely determines scalability and trustworthiness in-the-loop. In test-rich
settings, many repair systems rely on test suites as executable oracles and combine them
with fault localization, search, and synthesis [25, 36, 37]. In weaker-oracle settings, feedback
may come from compilation/type checking (e.g., fixing compiler-detected errors) [19], static
analysis and linters (rule-covered compliance signals), or other lightweight checks that do
not execute the program. Recent LLM-based and agentic repair pipelines often assume test
or dynamic feedback to iteratively verify and refine patches, but this assumption can break
in emerging ecosystems where tests/toolchains are missing or expensive to run at scale [52].
   Our work targets this test-scarce part of the design space and differs from a naive “linter +
LLM” combination in two ways. First, we treat a precision-first static analyzer as a checkable
contract that defines where to fix via structured localization and stable identifiers, and we
re-check the whole project after edits to provide repeatable, scalable feedback. Second, we
explicitly design repair-oriented context boundaries and retrieval augmentation to make how
to fix feasible in low-resource languages, and we empirically study how oracle properties and
workflow components affect outcomes under a frozen oracle configuration.

7.1    Traditional Approaches for Defect Detection and Repair
Static analysis tools play an important role in software defect detection by analyzing code
without execution. IccTA [26] detects inter-component communication vulnerabilities in
Android applications via static taint analysis, and FlowDroid [3] provides lifecycle-aware
taint tracking for Android. In contrast, dynamic analysis examines program behavior during
execution[5, 12, 46]; tools such as Valgrind [40] detect runtime errors and performance
issues, and Holmes [10] uses statistical debugging to identify error-prone execution paths.
Traditional program repair approaches often rely on synthesis and fault localization [25, 37];
for example, AutoFix [21] and Angelix [36] generate patches based on constraints inferred
from failing executions. Our work differs in focusing on test-scarce low-resource ecosystems
and studying how a static analyzer can serve as a scalable oracle for guiding and verifying
LLM-based repairs. Another widely used approach involves rule-based methods, which rely
on predefined patterns or templates to detect and repair defects. For instance, Abstract
Syntax Tree based matching and regular expressions are commonly used to identify syntactic

                                              , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
28                        Zhihao Lin, Mingyi Zhou, Chi Chen, Yun Yang, Jun Wang, Chunming Hu, and Li Li


and semantic issues in source code [30]. These methods are implemented in tools that enforce
compliance with specific coding guidelines.

7.2    Learning-Based Approaches for Defect Detection and Repair
The advent of LLMs has reshaped software engineering, especially for code generation and
summarization [1, 28]. Benefiting from strong code understanding capabilities, LLMs can
also perform tasks such as defect detection and repair [19, 41, 49, 51]. Recent learning-based
approaches have created a significant impact on defect detection, which autonomously learns
the patterns of defective codes in a large scale of code datasets. For example, Devign uses
GNN [48] to understand code semantics to detect defects. It can represent code as a graph
to identify the complex defects that static analysis tools miss. VulDeePecker [29] is another
example of a learning-based defect detection approach. VulDeePecker relies on binary clas-
sification for detecting vulnerable parts of code by examining the syntactic and semantic
structure, with which it identifies snippets of bug-prone code. It is able to perform well
on common programming languages but fails when applied to new languages without ex-
tensive retraining. Both Devign and VulDeePecker illustrate their strengths in detecting
defects. CodeX [8] is a general-purpose LLM that has demonstrated strong capabilities in
the code domain. Its pretraining on extensive code datasets enables it to provide intelli-
gent code suggestions and repairs for widely used programming languages such as Python,
JavaScript, and Java. AutoCodeRover [52] is an agent that integrates LLMs with a context
retrieval mechanism and debugging techniques such as spectrum-based fault localization. It
can iteratively extract the relevant surrounding context based on AST representations to
autonomously solve real-world GitHub issues. Vul-RAG[13] is another approach using RAG
to enhance the performance of LLMs in detecting and repairing defects. It retrieves the
relevant external knowledge from a vector database to generate more precise and informed
repair suggestions. In contrast to LLM-only repair and agentic pipelines that rely on tests or
dynamic debugging signals, our static-oracle–guided paradigm treats a static analyzer as a
lightweight, deterministic oracle that defines where to fix and provides scalable re-checking
when tests are unavailable. We further distill reusable oracle properties (precision-first, sta-
ble identifiers, structured localization, and repair-oriented context boundaries) that are
intended to transfer beyond ArkTS/OpenHarmony.

8     Conclusion
In conclusion, we study defect detection and repair in low-resource programming languages
and propose a static-oracle–guided LLM repair workflow. Using ArkTS/OpenHarmony as
a representative case, we develop HapRepair to automatically detect and repair defects
by integrating LLMs with a static oracle and RAG. HapRepair leverages and integrates
a static analysis tool HomeCheck for defect detection and utilizes RAG to retrieve repair
knowledge to address training-data scarcity; it also extracts and combines defect-relevant
context to keep prompts focused in long, multi-defect files. More broadly, our study suggests
a reusable design principle for low-resource, test-scarce settings: let a precision-first static
oracle define where to fix and provide a checkable contract, and let an LLM synthesize
how to fix when repairs are context- and semantics-dependent. Experiment results show
that HapRepair can achieve a low number of remaining oracle findings and a high guideline-
compliance repair rate (static compliance), which should be interpreted as progress toward
oracle satisfaction under a frozen static oracle rather than a proof of full semantic correctness.
Future work includes evaluating the paradigm across additional languages and defect classes,

, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
HapRepair : Static-Oracle–Guided LLM Repair                                                                   29


and extending oracle support for more complex repair regimes (e.g., cross-file and protocol-
level fixes) with richer localization anchors.

Acknowledgments
This work is partially supported by the National Key Research and Development Program
of China (No. 2024YFB4506300) and the Open Foundation of Yunnan Key Laboratory of
Software Engineering under Grant No.2023SE102.

References
 [1] Wasi Uddin Ahmad, Saikat Chakraborty, Baishakhi Ray, and Kai-Wei Chang. 2020. A transformer-
     based approach for source code summarization. arXiv preprint arXiv:2005.00653 (2020).
 [2] Wasi Uddin Ahmad, Saikat Chakraborty, Baishakhi Ray, and Kai-Wei Chang. 2021. Unified pre-training
     for program understanding and generation. arXiv preprint arXiv:2103.06333 (2021).
 [3] Steven Arzt, Siegfried Rasthofer, Christian Fritz, Eric Bodden, Alexandre Bartel, Jacques Klein, Yves
     Le Traon, Damien Octeau, and Patrick McDaniel. 2014. Flowdroid: Precise context, flow, field, object-
     sensitive and lifecycle-aware taint analysis for android apps. ACM sigplan notices 49, 6 (2014), 259–269.
 [4] Nathaniel Ayewah, William Pugh, David Hovemeyer, J David Morgenthaler, and John Penix. 2008.
     Using static analysis to find bugs. IEEE software 25, 5 (2008), 22–29.
 [5] Thoms Ball. 1999. The concept of dynamic analysis. ACM SIGSOFT Software Engineering Notes 24,
     6 (1999), 216–234.
 [6] Al Bessey, Ken Block, Ben Chelf, Andy Chou, Bryan Fulton, Seth Hallem, Charles Henri-Gros, Asya
     Kamsky, Scott McPeak, and Dawson Engler. 2010. A few billion lines of code later: using static analysis
     to find bugs in the real world. Commun. ACM 53, 2 (2010), 66–75.
 [7] Haonan Chen, Daihang Chen, Yizhuo Yang, Lingyun Xu, Liang Gao, Mingyi Zhou, Chunming Hu, and
     Li Li. 2025. ArkAnalyzer: The Static Analysis Framework for OpenHarmony. arXiv:2501.05798 [cs.SE]
     https://arxiv.org/abs/2501.05798
 [8] Mark Chen, Jerry Tworek, Heewoo Jun, Qiming Yuan, Henrique Ponde De Oliveira Pinto, Jared
     Kaplan, Harri Edwards, Yuri Burda, Nicholas Joseph, Greg Brockman, et al. 2021. Evaluating large
     language models trained on code. arXiv preprint arXiv:2107.03374 (2021).
 [9] Zimin Chen, Steve Kommrusch, Michele Tufano, Louis-Noël Pouchet, Denys Poshyvanyk, and Martin
     Monperrus. 2019. Sequencer: Sequence-to-sequence learning for end-to-end program repair. IEEE
     Transactions on Software Engineering 47, 9 (2019), 1943–1959.
[10] Trishul M Chilimbi, Ben Liblit, Krishna Mehra, Aditya V Nori, and Kapil Vaswani. 2009. Holmes:
     Effective statistical debugging via efficient path profiling. In 2009 IEEE 31st International Conference
     on Software Engineering. IEEE, 34–44.
[11] Huawei Developer. 2024. HomeCheck (CodeLinter) Rule Set for HarmonyOS. https://developer.huawei.
     com/consumer/cn/doc/harmonyos-guides-V5/ide-codelinter-rule-V5. Accessed on: 2024-04-10.
[12] Ulrich Doraszelski and Ariel Pakes. 2007. A framework for applied dynamic analysis in IO. Handbook
     of industrial organization 3 (2007), 1887–1966.
[13] Xueying Du, Geng Zheng, Kaixin Wang, Jiayi Feng, Wentai Deng, Mingwei Liu, Bihuan Chen, Xin
     Peng, Tao Ma, and Yiling Lou. 2024. Vul-RAG: Enhancing LLM-based Vulnerability Detection via
     Knowledge-level RAG. arXiv preprint arXiv:2406.11147 (2024).
[14] ESLint. [n. d.]. ESLint. https://eslint.org/.
[15] Hugging Face. 2024. stella en 1.5B v5: A Large Language Model for English Text Generation. https:
     //huggingface.co/transformers. Accessed: 2024-12-25.
[16] Zhiyu Fan, Xiang Gao, Martin Mirchev, Abhik Roychoudhury, and Shin Hwei Tan. 2023. Automated
     repair of programs from large language models. In 2023 IEEE/ACM 45th International Conference on
     Software Engineering (ICSE). IEEE, 1469–1481.
[17] OpenAtom Foundation. 2024. OpenHarmony: A Comprehensive Open Source Project for All-Scenario,
     Fully-Connected, and Intelligent Era. https://gitee.com/openharmony. Accessed on: 2024-04-10.
[18] Görkem Giray, Kwabena Ebo Bennin, Ömer Köksal, Önder Babur, and Bedir Tekinerdogan. 2023. On
     the use of deep learning in software defect prediction. Journal of Systems and Software 195 (2023),
     111537.
[19] Rahul Gupta, Soham Pal, Aditya Kanade, and Shirish Shevade. 2017. Deepfix: Fixing common c
     language errors by deep learning. In Proceedings of the aaai conference on artificial intelligence, Vol. 31.


                                                 , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
30                        Zhihao Lin, Mingyi Zhou, Chi Chen, Yun Yang, Jun Wang, Chunming Hu, and Li Li


[20] Open HarmonySIG. 2024. Openharmony sig organization and pr command support list. https://gitee.
     com/openharmony-sig. Accessed on: 2024-06-07.
[21] Shi-Yu Huang, Kuang-Chien Chen, and Kwang-Ting Cheng. 1999. AutoFix: A hybrid tool for automatic
     logic rectification. IEEE transactions on computer-aided design of integrated circuits and systems 18,
     9 (1999), 1376–1384.
[22] Nan Jiang, Kevin Liu, Thibaud Lutellier, and Lin Tan. 2023. Impact of code language models on au-
     tomated program repair. In 2023 IEEE/ACM 45th International Conference on Software Engineering
     (ICSE). IEEE, 1430–1442.
[23] René Just, Darioush Jalali, and Michael D Ernst. 2014. Defects4J: A database of existing faults to
     enable controlled testing studies for Java programs. In Proceedings of the 2014 international symposium
     on software testing and analysis. 437–440.
[24] Dongsun Kim, Jaechang Nam, Jaewoo Song, and Sunghun Kim. 2013. Automatic patch generation
     learned from human-written patches. In 2013 35th international conference on software engineering
     (ICSE). IEEE, 802–811.
[25] Claire Le Goues, Michael Dewey-Vogt, Stephanie Forrest, and Westley Weimer. 2012. A systematic
     study of automated program repair: Fixing 55 out of 105 bugs for $8 each. In 2012 34th international
     conference on software engineering (ICSE). IEEE, 3–13.
[26] Li Li, Alexandre Bartel, Tegawendé F Bissyandé, Jacques Klein, Yves Le Traon, Steven Arzt, Siegfried
     Rasthofer, Eric Bodden, Damien Octeau, and Patrick McDaniel. 2015. Iccta: Detecting inter-component
     privacy leaks in android apps. In 2015 IEEE/ACM 37th IEEE International Conference on Software
     Engineering, Vol. 1. IEEE, 280–291.
[27] Li Li, Xiang Gao, Hailong Sun, Chunming Hu, Xiaoyu Sun, Haoyu Wang, Haipeng Cai, Ting Su, Xiapu
     Luo, Tegawendé F Bissyandé, et al. 2023. Software engineering for openharmony: A research roadmap.
     arXiv preprint arXiv:2311.01311 (2023).
[28] Yujia Li, David Choi, Junyoung Chung, Nate Kushman, Julian Schrittwieser, Rémi Leblond, Tom
     Eccles, James Keeling, Felix Gimeno, Agustin Dal Lago, et al. 2022. Competition-level code generation
     with alphacode. Science 378, 6624 (2022), 1092–1097.
[29] Zhen Li, Deqing Zou, Shouhuai Xu, Xinyu Ou, Hai Jin, Sujuan Wang, Zhijun Deng, and Yuyi
     Zhong. 2018. Vuldeepecker: A deep learning-based system for vulnerability detection. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:1801.01681 (2018).
[30] Changsong Liu, Yangyang Zhao, Yibiao Yang, Hongmin Lu, Yuming Zhou, and Baowen Xu. 2015. An
     ast-based approach to classifying defects. In 2015 IEEE International Conference on Software Quality,
     Reliability and Security-Companion. IEEE, 14–21.
[31] Fan Long and Martin Rinard. 2016. Automatic patch generation by learning correct code. In Proceedings
     of the 43rd Annual ACM SIGPLAN-SIGACT symposium on principles of programming languages.
     298–312.
[32] Wei Ma, Shangqing Liu, Wenhan Wang, Qiang Hu, Ye Liu, Cen Zhang, Liming Nie, and Yang Liu.
     2023. The scope of ChatGPT in software engineering: A thorough investigation. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2305.12138 (2023).
[33] Taslim Mahbub, Dana Dghaym, Aadhith Shankarnarayanan, Taufiq Syed, Salsabeel Shapsough, and
     Imran Zualkernan. 2024. Can GPT-4 aid in detecting ambiguities, inconsistencies, and incompleteness
     in requirements analysis? A comprehensive case study. IEEE Access (2024).
[34] Dung Nguyen Manh, Thang Phan Chau, Nam Le Hai, Thong T. Doan, Nam V. Nguyen, Quang Pham,
     and Nghi D. Q. Bui. 2024. CodeMMLU: A Multi-Task Benchmark for Assessing Code Understanding
     Capabilities of CodeLLMs. arXiv:2410.01999 [cs.SE] https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.01999
[35] Matias Martinez, Thomas Durieux, Romain Sommerard, Jifeng Xuan, and Martin Monperrus. 2017.
     Automatic repair of real bugs in java: A large-scale experiment on the defects4j dataset. Empirical
     Software Engineering 22 (2017), 1936–1964.
[36] Sergey Mechtaev, Jooyong Yi, and Abhik Roychoudhury. 2016. Angelix: Scalable multiline program
     patch synthesis via symbolic analysis. In Proceedings of the 38th international conference on software
     engineering. 691–701.
[37] Martin Monperrus. 2018. Automatic software repair: A bibliography. ACM Computing Surveys (CSUR)
     51, 1 (2018), 1–24.
[38] MTEB 2024. Overall MTEB English leaderboard. https://huggingface.co/spaces/mteb/leaderboard.
     Accessed on: 2024-04-10.
[39] Marı́a Isabel Murillo and Marcelo Jenkins. 2021. Technical Debt Measurement during Software Develop-
     ment using Sonarqube: Literature Review and a Case Study. In 2021 IEEE V Jornadas Costarricenses


, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
HapRepair : Static-Oracle–Guided LLM Repair                                                           31


     de Investigacion en Computación e Informática (JoCICI). IEEE, 1–6.
[40] Nicholas Nethercote and Julian Seward. 2007. Valgrind: a framework for heavyweight dynamic binary
     instrumentation. ACM Sigplan notices 42, 6 (2007), 89–100.
[41] Michael Pradel and Koushik Sen. 2018. Deepbugs: A learning approach to name-based bug detection.
     Proceedings of the ACM on Programming Languages 2, OOPSLA (2018), 1–25.
[42] Julian Aron Prenner and Romain Robbes. 2024. Out of context: How important is local context in
     neural program repair?. In Proceedings of the IEEE/ACM 46th International Conference on Software
     Engineering. 1–13.
[43] OpenHarmony Third Party Components SIG. 2024. Openharmony-tpc: Third party components repos-
     itory for openharmony applications. https://gitee.com/openharmony-tpc. Accessed on: 2024-04-10.
[44] SonarQube. [n. d.]. SonarQube. https://www.sonarqube.org/.
[45] Michele Tufano, Cody Watson, Gabriele Bavota, Massimiliano Di Penta, Martin White, and Denys
     Poshyvanyk. 2019. An empirical study on learning bug-fixing patches in the wild via neural machine
     translation. ACM Transactions on Software Engineering and Methodology (TOSEM) 28, 4 (2019),
     1–29.
[46] Dimitrios Vamvatsikos and C Allin Cornell. 2002. Incremental dynamic analysis. Earthquake engineer-
     ing & structural dynamics 31, 3 (2002), 491–514.
[47] Marko Vasic, Aditya Kanade, Petros Maniatis, David Bieber, and Rishabh Singh. 2019. Neural program
     repair by jointly learning to localize and repair. arXiv preprint arXiv:1904.01720 (2019).
[48] Zonghan Wu, Shirui Pan, Fengwen Chen, Guodong Long, Chengqi Zhang, and S Yu Philip. 2020. A
     comprehensive survey on graph neural networks. IEEE transactions on neural networks and learning
     systems 32, 1 (2020), 4–24.
[49] Chunqiu Steven Xia, Yuxiang Wei, and Lingming Zhang. 2023. Automated program repair in the era
     of large pre-trained language models. In 2023 IEEE/ACM 45th International Conference on Software
     Engineering (ICSE). IEEE, 1482–1494.
[50] Aidan ZH Yang, Sophia Kolak, Vincent J Hellendoorn, Ruben Martins, and Claire Le Goues. 2024.
     Revisiting unnaturalness for automated program repair in the era of large language models. arXiv
     preprint arXiv:2404.15236 (2024).
[51] Bing Yu, Hua Qi, Qing Guo, Felix Juefei-Xu, Xiaofei Xie, Lei Ma, and Jianjun Zhao. 2021. Deeprepair:
     Style-guided repairing for deep neural networks in the real-world operational environment. IEEE
     Transactions on Reliability 71, 4 (2021), 1401–1416.
[52] Yuntong Zhang, Haifeng Ruan, Zhiyu Fan, and Abhik Roychoudhury. 2024. Autocoderover: Au-
     tonomous program improvement. In Proceedings of the 33rd ACM SIGSOFT International Symposium
     on Software Testing and Analysis. 1592–1604.




A     Additional Results
This appendix reports project-level results for the RQ3 ablations and the RQ4 model com-
parison.



A.1    RQ3 Ablation: Project-level Remaining Defects
All values are from Round 1 on 35 projects; Initial denotes baseline defects from revision/target proj



A.2    RQ4 Model Comparison: Project-level Remaining Defects
Round 5 remaining defects by model are reported below; “-” indicates missing round logs
for that project.


                                              , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
32                        Zhihao Lin, Mingyi Zhou, Chi Chen, Yun Yang, Jun Wang, Chunming Hu, and Li Li


Table 10. Project-level remaining defects for different numbers of retrieved RAG examples (Round 1,
35 projects).


 Project                                                  Initial No RAG Top-1 Top-3 Top-5
 PullLinking                                                    36      36        0        0        0
 cameraAnimSample                                               11      11        2        2        2
 JS dialog box static                                          100      99        0        0        0
 ace ets module router1                                         99      91        4        4       67
 ace ets module navigation1                                     89      78        0        1       28
 ace ets module commonAttrsLayout api11                         85      73        2        1       37
 ace ets module RouteManagement api12                           84      66        2        2       53
 applications permission manager                                80      42        5        8       16
 ace ets module imageText api16                                 76      49        0        0        4
 ace ets component common attrss flex001                        72      39        0        0        6
 audio suite                                                    92      21        1        6        3
 applications photos                                            96      46        5        7       38
 applications systemui                                          74      62       14       17       34
 ace ets component common attrss flex nowear                    72      51        0        0        0
 acts validator                                               1357    1186       23       24      103
 TextComponentTest                                             727     612        1        1      104
 wifi testapp                                                  544     426       62       52       69
 bluetoothtest                                                 503     461       34       24      144
 Info                                                          485     309        9        8       10
 ace ets module nowear waterflow                               471      22        1        0       22
 ace ets module swiper                                         457     190       56       36       50
 Image                                                         456     344      109      127       85
 ace ets module navigation api12                               452      45        0        0       45
 ace ets module scroll nowear api12                            420       1        0        0        1
 ace ets module swiper api11                                   392     139       48       30       44
 ace ets module imageText api12                                324     270        2        1        1
 asn1 ber                                                      324       0        1        0        0
 ohos dfu library                                              167      39       10       15       31
 ohos mail base                                                142      27       20       16       28
 flutter embedding                                             123      91       55       20       17
 HealthyPotAssistant                                            56      14        6        7       14
 ohos cordova                                                   35      26        8        8       26
 shopping                                                      117      70       19       20       20
 YFree HarmonyOS                                                23       8        5        6        8
 CanvasTest                                                     23       8        1        1        8
B    Prompt Templates
     Analyzing Operations Performed Prompt Template

     This is an arkts code snippet containing a defect:
     Defect Code
     This is an example of fixing the above defect:
     Repair Code
     Please compare these two code samples and output the differences of the fixed code
     sample relative to the problematic code sample during the repair process.




, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
HapRepair : Static-Oracle–Guided LLM Repair                                                            33


     Table 11. Project-level remaining defects for different context types (Round 1, 35 projects).


 Project                                                    Initial Surrounding Full Context
 PullLinking                                                    36                 0                   1
 cameraAnimSample                                               11                 2                   3
 JS dialog box static                                          100                 0                  99
 ace ets module router1                                         99                 4                  72
 ace ets module navigation1                                     89                 0                  48
 ace ets module commonAttrsLayout api11                         85                 2                  61
 ace ets module RouteManagement api12                           84                 2                  59
 applications permission manager                                80                 5                  33
 ace ets module imageText api16                                 76                 0                  23
 ace ets component common attrss flex001                        72                 0                  30
 audio suite                                                    92                 1                   4
 applications photos                                            96                 5                  30
 applications systemui                                          74                14                  52
 ace ets component common attrss flex nowear                    72                 0                  16
 acts validator                                               1357                23                 674
 TextComponentTest                                             727                 1                 487
 wifi testapp                                                  544                62                 439
 bluetoothtest                                                 503                34                 342
 Info                                                          485                 9                 220
 ace ets module nowear waterflow                               471                 1                  20
 ace ets module swiper                                         457                56                 167
 Image                                                         456               109                 327
 ace ets module navigation api12                               452                 0                  40
 ace ets module scroll nowear api12                            420                 0                   1
 ace ets module swiper api11                                   392                48                 137
 ace ets module imageText api12                                324                 2                 118
 asn1 ber                                                      324                 1                   0
 ohos dfu library                                              167                10                  22
 ohos mail base                                                142                20                  26
 flutter embedding                                             123                55                  69
 HealthyPotAssistant                                            56                 6                   9
 ohos cordova                                                   35                 8                  26
 shopping                                                      117                19                  42
 YFree HarmonyOS                                                23                 5                   8
 CanvasTest                                                     23                 1                   2
    Extract Surrounding Context Prompt Template

   I am an expert at analyzing HomeCheck results and extracting minimal code blocks
   containing defects.
   When you provide me with ArkTS code and HomeCheck analysis results, I will:
   1. Learn the defect patterns from the rules
   2. Take the HomeCheck results as ground truth defect locations
   3. For each defect reported by HomeCheck:
   - Find the minimal code block containing the defect and its required context
   - Include any related code that is necessary to understand the defect
   - Ensure the extracted block captures the full scope of the issue



                                              , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
34                          Zhihao Lin, Mingyi Zhou, Chi Chen, Yun Yang, Jun Wang, Chunming Hu, and Li Li


     Table 12. Project-level remaining defects for different diff representations (Round 1, 35 projects).


 Project                                                       Initial No Diff Difflib GPT-Diff
 PullLinking                                                       36           0         0             0
 cameraAnimSample                                                  11           2         2             2
 JS dialog box static                                             100           0         0             0
 ace ets module router1                                            99           4         4             3
 ace ets module navigation1                                        89           0         0             0
 ace ets module commonAttrsLayout api11                            85           2         2             2
 ace ets module RouteManagement api12                              84           3         2             4
 applications permission manager                                   80           3         5             5
 ace ets module imageText api16                                    76           0         0             0
 ace ets component common attrss flex001                           72           0         0             0
 audio suite                                                       92           3         1             1
 applications photos                                               96           5         5             7
 applications systemui                                             74          17        14            11
 ace ets component common attrss flex nowear                       72           0         0             0
 acts validator                                                  1357         681        23            42
 TextComponentTest                                                727          92         1             1
 wifi testapp                                                     544          72        62            72
 bluetoothtest                                                    503         158        34            25
 Info                                                             485          60         9             8
 ace ets module nowear waterflow                                  471          12         1             1
 ace ets module swiper                                            457          68        56            40
 Image                                                            456         139       109           133
 ace ets module navigation api12                                  452           0         0             0
 ace ets module scroll nowear api12                               420           0         0             0
 ace ets module swiper api11                                      392          88        48            35
 ace ets module imageText api12                                   324         253         2             1
 asn1 ber                                                         324           0         1             0
 ohos dfu library                                                 167          31        10            12
 ohos mail base                                                   142          27        20            18
 flutter embedding                                                123          91        55            16
 HealthyPotAssistant                                               56           9         6             7
 ohos cordova                                                      35          26         8             8
 shopping                                                         117          70        19            19
 YFree HarmonyOS                                                   23           8         5             3
 CanvasTest                                                        23           8         1             0

      Input format:
      1. Complete ArkTS source code
      2. HomeCheck results in JSON (issuesReport.json):
      [
      {
      "filePath": "/path/to/file.ets",
      "messages": [
      {
      "line": line number, "column": col number,
      "severity": "SUGGESTION"|"WARN"|"ERROR"|"OFF",



, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
HapRepair : Static-Oracle–Guided LLM Repair                                                                        35


  Table 13. Project-level remaining defects after Round 5 across models (baseline defects = 8,664).

Project                                       Initial GPT-5.1 GPT-5-mini Qwen3-30B-A3B Qwen3-Coder-Plus DeepSeek-Chat
PullLinking                                      36       0           0              0                0             0
cameraAnimSample                                 11       2           2              4                2             2
JS dialog box static                            100       0           0              4                0             0
ace ets module router1                           99       0           0              7               10             0
ace ets module navigation1                       89       0           0             12                0             0
ace ets module commonAttrsLayout api11           85       2           1              0                0             0
ace ets module RouteManagement api12             84       0           0             13               13             0
applications permission manager                  80       2           0              3                7             1
ace ets module imageText api16                   76       0           0              0                0             0
ace ets component common attrss flex001          72       0           0              0                0             0
audio suite                                      92       0           1             13                0             2
applications photos                              96       3           4             19                -             2
applications systemui                            74       9           3             22               13             7
ace ets component common attrss flex nowear      72       0           0              0                0             0
acts validator                                 1357       1           2            195               22             1
TextComponentTest                               727       1           1            208                3             1
wifi testapp                                    544      40          46            119               61            60
bluetoothtest                                   503      10           1            126               17             1
Info                                            485       3           3            194                5             1
ace ets module nowear waterflow                 471       1           2              1                1             1
ace ets module swiper                           457      24          23             26                7            23
Image                                           456      79           9            162                -            43
ace ets module navigation api12                 452       0           0             20                0             0
ace ets module scroll nowear api12              420       0           0              0                0             0
ace ets module swiper api11                     392      21          24             18                8            22
ace ets module imageText api12                  324       0           0             76                6            12
asn1 ber                                        324       1           1              0               57             0
ohos dfu library                                167       2           2             13                4            10
ohos mail base                                  142      14          13             16               11            27
flutter embedding                               123       1           2             46                -             3
HealthyPotAssistant                              56       2           2              3                3             3
ohos cordova                                     35       4           3              7                3             3
shopping                                        117      11          16             13                -             7
YFree HarmonyOS                                  23       3           8              8                -             3
CanvasTest                                       23       0           1              3                0             0


   "message": "Issue description",
   "rule": "@performance/rule-name"
   },
   ...
   ]
   },
   ...
   ]

   Important notes:
   - I will treat each HomeCheck result as definitive evidence of a defect
   - The defect block will be the complete code unit containing the issue, for example,
   the define and use of a variable.
   - I should find all the code related to the defect and return the defect block. For
   example, for a constant-property-referencing-check-in-loops defect, I need to extract
   the constant variable assignment outside of the outermost loop
   - Line numbers will be preserved for accurate block replacement
   - Output will be valid JSON only, sorted by filePath then line number
   - Each block must be independently understandable and fixable

    I must output valid JSON only, sorted by filePath then line number. Make sure
    the output is correct JSON format which can be parsed by json.loads() and follow
    the format:



                                                       , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
36                        Zhihao Lin, Mingyi Zhou, Chi Chen, Yun Yang, Jun Wang, Chunming Hu, and Li Li



     ‘‘‘json
     [
     {
     "rule": "@performance/rule-name",
     "defect block": {
     "code": ["Code block containing the defect"],
     "start line": "first line number",
     "end line": "last line number",
     "line of interest": "The code where the defect is reported by
     HomeCheck. Code instead of line number!!"
     },
     "analysis": "The description of the defect"
     },
     ...
     ]
     ‘‘‘

     Following are the defect patterns I will look for:
     Rule: [Rule]
     Description: [Description]
     Defect Example: [Buggy Code]
     Fixed Example:[Repair Code]
     Surrounding Context: [Surrounding Context of the defect]




, Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
HapRepair : Static-Oracle–Guided LLM Repair                                                           37


       Functionally equal Prompt Template

      You are a senior code reviewer focused on overall program functionality.

      Your task is to determine whether two versions of code (original and repaired)
      maintain the same core functionality and purpose. The code is presented in the
      form of Control Flow Graphs (CFG).

      When analyzing the CFG, please ignore implementation details such as:
      - Specific function implementation methods
      - Variable names and types
      - Code structure and organization
      - Specific control flow paths
      - Function call patterns
      - Performance optimizations

      Instead, focus on:
      - Main purpose and objectives of the code
      - Input/output behavior from user perspective
      - Core business logic and requirements
      - External behavior and interfaces
      - Overall program workflow

      When analyzing the CFG, please note:
      - Observe if connections between nodes maintain the same business logic
      - Focus on whether key paths still exist
      - Verify if major program branches and decision points are preserved
      - Check if external calls and interfaces remain consistent

       Original Code:
       {original code}

       Repaired Code:
       {repaired code}

       Original CFG:
       {original CFG}

       Repaired CFG:
       {repaired CFG}

       Please analyze whether the repaired code maintains the same core functional-
       ity as the original code, ignoring implementation details.

      Please return the analysis result in the following format:
      {
      ”result”: ”success” — ”failure”,
      ”reason”: ”Detailed explanation of whether core functionality and purpose are
      maintained, rather than focusing on implementation details”
      }




                                              , Vol. 1, No. 1, Article . Publication date: December 2025.
